data-migration/migrate-aurora-tidb-from-snapshot.md, before:

---
title: Migrate Data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB using DB snapshot.
---

# Migrate Data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB

This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB. The migration process uses [DB snapshot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/Aurora.Managing.Backups.html), which saves a lot of space and time.

The whole migration has two processes:

- Import full data to TiDB using TiDB Lightning
- Replicate incremental data to TiDB using DM (optional)

## Prerequisites

- [Install Dumpling and TiDB Lightning using TiUP](/migration-tools.md)
- [Get the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database).

## Import full data to TiDB using TiDB Lightning

### Step 1. Export an Aurora snapshot to Amazon S3

1. Query the current binlog position by running the following command:

    ```shell
    mysql> SHOW MASTER STATUS;
    ```

    From the output, record the binlog name and position for later use.

    ```
    +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
    | File             | Position | Binlog_Do_DB | Binlog_Ignore_DB | Executed_Gtid_Set |
    +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
    | mysql-bin.000002 |    52806 |              |                  |                   |
    +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
    1 row in set (0.012 sec)
    ```

2. Export the Aurora snapshot. For detailed steps, refer to [Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html).

After you obtain the binlog position, export the snapshot within 5 minutes. Otherwise, the recorded binlog position might be outdated and thus cause data conflict during the incremental replication.

Make sure you have the following information ready:

- The Aurora binlog name and position at the time of the snapshot creation.
- The S3 path where the snapshot is stored, and the SecretKey and AccessKey with access to the S3 path.

### Step 2. Export schema using Dumpling

Because the snapshot file does not contain the DDL statements, you need to export the schema using Dumpling and create the schema in the target database using TiDB Lightning. If you want to manually create the schema, you can skip this step.

Export the schema using Dumpling:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dumpling --host ${host} --port 3306 --user root --password ${password} --no-data --output ./schema --filter "mydb.*"
```

The options used in the command above are as follows:

|Parameter              |Description    |
|-                      |-              |
|`-u` or `--user`       |MySQL user|
|`-p` or `--password`   |MySQL user password|
|`-P` or `--port`       |MySQL port|
|`-h` or `--host`       |MySQL IP address|
|`-t` or `--thread`     |The number of threads used for export|
|`-o` or `--output`     |The directory that stores the exported file. Supports local path or [external storage URL](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md)|
|`-r` or `--row`        |The maximum number of rows in a single file|
|`-F`                   |The maximum size of a single file, in MiB|
|`-B` or `--database`   |Specifies a database to be exported|
|`-d` or `--no-data`    |Do not export data. Only export schema.|

For more options, refer to [Dumpling overview](/dumpling-overview.md).

### Step 3. Create the TiDB Lightning configuration file

Create the `tidb-lightning.toml` configuration file as follows:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
vim tidb-lighting.toml
```

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[tidb]

# The target TiDB cluster information.
host = ${host}                # e.g.: 172.16.32.1
port = ${port}                # e.g.: 4000
user = "${user_name}          # e.g.: "root"
password = "${password}"      # e.g.: "rootroot"
status-port = ${status-port}  # Obtain the table schema information from TiDB status port, e.g.: 10080
pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"     # The cluster PD address, e.g.: 172.16.31.3:2379. TiDB Lightning obtains some information from PD. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr correctly. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.

[tikv-importer]
# "local": Default. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TB or above). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.
# "tidb": The "tidb" backend is used to import data below 1 TB. During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally.
backend = "local"

# Set the temporary storage directory for the sorted KV files. The directory must be empty, and the storage space must be enough to hold the largest single table in the data source.
sorted-kv-dir = "/mnt/ssd/sorted-kv-dir"

[mydumper]
# The path that stores the snapshot file.
data-source-dir = "${s3_path}"  # e.g.: s3://bucket-name/data-path

[[mydumper.files]]
# The expression that parses the parquet file.
pattern = '(?i)^(?:[^/]*/)*([a-z0-9_]+)\.([a-z0-9_]+)/(?:[^/]*/)*(?:[a-z0-9\-_.]+\.(parquet))$'
schema = '$1'
table = '$2'
type = '$3'
```

If you need to enable TLS in the TiDB cluster, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

### Step 4. Import full data to TiDB

1. Create the tables in the target database using TiDB Lightning:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -d ./schema -no-schema=false
    ```

2. Start the import by running `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program directly in command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program with a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:

    Pass the SecretKey and AccessKey that have access to the S3 storage path as environment variables to the Dumpling node. You can also read the credentials from `~/.aws/credentials`.

    You can add the `--s3.region` arguments, such as `ap-northeast-1`, to specify the region of the S3 storage. For more configurations, see [external storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#s3-command-line-parameters).

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
    export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
    nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out &
    ```

3. After the import starts, you can check the progress of the import by either of the following methods:

    - `grep` the keyword `progress` in the log. The progress is updated every 5 seconds.
    - Check progress in the monitoring dashboard. See [TiDB Lightning Monitoring](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md).

4. After TiDB Lightning completes the import, it exits automatically. If you find the last 5 lines of its log prints `the whole procedure completed`, the import is successful.

> **Note:**
>
> Whether the import is successful or not, the last line of the log shows `tidb lightning exit`. It means that TiDB Lightning exits normally, but does not necessarily mean that the import is successful.

If you encounter any problem during the import, refer to [TiDB Lightning FAQ](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md) for troubleshooting.

## Replicate incremental data to TiDB (optional)

### Prerequisites

- [Install DM using TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).
- [Get the source database and target database privileges required for DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro).

### Step 1. Create the data source

1. Create the `source1.yaml` file as follows:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    # Configuration.
    source-id: "mysql-01"     # Must be unique.

    # Configure whether DM-worker uses the global transaction identifier (GTID) to pull binlogs. To enable this mode, the upstream MySQL must also enable GTID. If the upstream MySQL has automatic source-replica switching, then GTID mode is required.
    enable-gtid: false
    from:
      host: "${host}"         # e.g.: 172.16.10.81
      user: "root"
      password: "${password}" # Supports but not recommended to use plaintext password. It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.
      port: 3306
    ```

2. Load the data source configuration to the DM cluster using `tiup dmctl` by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} operate-source create source1.yaml
    ```

    The options used in the command above are described as follows:

    |Parameter              |Description    |
    |-                      |-              |
    |`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster that `dmctl` is connecting to, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
    |`operate-source create`|Load the data source to the DM cluster.|

### Step 2. Create the migration task

Create the `task1.yaml` file as follows:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
# Task name. Multiple tasks that are running at the same time must each have a unique name.
name: "test"
# Task mode. Options are:
# - full: only performs full data migration.
# - incremental: only performs binlog real-time replication.
# - all: full data migration + binlog real-time replication.
task-mode: "incremental"
# The configuration of the target TiDB database.
target-database:
  host: "${host}"                   # e.g.: 172.16.10.83
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: "${password}"           # Supports but not recommended to use plaintext password. It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.

# Global configuration for block and allow lists. Each instance can reference the configuration by name.
block-allow-list:                     # If DM version is v2.0.0-beta.2 or earlier, use black-white-list.
  listA:                              # Name.
    do-tables:                        # Allow list for the upstream tables to be migrated.
    - db-name: "test_db"              # Name of databases to be migrated.
      tbl-name: "test_table"          # Name of tables to be migrated.

## Configure the data source.
mysql-instances:
  - source-id: "mysql-01"               # Data source ID，i.e., source-id in source1.yaml
    block-allow-list: "listA"           # Reference the block-allow-list configuration above.
#       syncer-config-name: "global"    # Reference the syncers incremental data configuration.
    meta:                               # When task-mode is "incremental" and the downstream database does not have a checkpoint, the binlog position is used as the starting point. If the downstream database has a checkpoint, use the checkpoint as the starting point.
      binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"   # The binlog position recorded in "Step 1. Export an Aurora snapshot to Amazon S3." When the upstream database has source-replica switching, GTID mode is required.
      binlog-pos: 109227
      # binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"

   ## (Optional) If you need to incrementally replicate data that has already been migrated in the full data migration, you need to enable safe mode to avoid the incremental data replication error.
   ## This scenario is common in the following case: the full migration data does not belong to the data source's consistency snapshot, and after that, DM starts to replicate incremental data from a position earlier than the full migration.
   # syncers:            # The running configurations of the sync processing unit.
   #  global:            # Configuration name.
   #    safe-mode: true  # If this field is set to true, DM will change INSERT to REPLACE, UPDATE to DELETE and REPLACE. This is to ensure that when the table schema contains primary key or unique index, DML statements can be imported repeatedly. In the first minute of starting or resuming an incremental replication task, DM automatically enables safe mode.
```

The YAML above is the minimum configuration required for the migration task. For more configuration items, refer to [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/task-configuration-file-full).

### Step 3. Run the migration task

Before you start the migration task, to reduce the probability of errors, it is recommended to check whether the configuration meets the requirements of DM by running the `check-task` command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} check-task task.yaml
```

After that, start the migration task by running `tiup dmctl`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} start-task task.yaml
```

The options used in the command above are described as follows:

|Parameter              |Description    |
|-                      |-              |
|`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster that `dmctl` is connecting to, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
|`start-task`           |Start the migration task.|

If the task fails to start, check the prompt message and fix the configuration. After that, you can re-run the command above to start the task.

If you encounter any problem, refer to [DM error handling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/error-handling) and [DM FAQ](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/faq).

### Step 4. Check the migration task status

To learn whether the DM cluster has an ongoing migration task and the task status, run the `query-status` command using `tiup dmctl`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} query-status ${task-name}
```

For a detailed interpretation of the results, refer to [Query Status](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/query-status).

### Step 5. Monitor the task and view logs

To view the history status of the migration task and other internal metrics, take the following steps.

If you have deployed Prometheus, Alertmanager, and Grafana when you deployed DM using TiUP, you can access Grafana using the IP address and port specified during the deployment. You can then select DM dashboard to view DM-related monitoring metrics.

When DM is running, DM-worker, DM-master, and dmctl output the related information in logs. The log directory of these components are as follows:

- DM-master: specified by the DM-master process parameter `--log-file`. If you deploy DM using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-master-8261/log/` by default.
- DM-worker: specified by the DM-worker process parameter `--log-file`. If you deploy DM using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-worker-8262/log/` by default.

## What's next

- [Pause the migration task](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/pause-task).
- [Resume the migration task](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/resume-task).
- [Stop the migration task](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/stop-task).
- [Export and import the cluster data source and task configuration](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/export-import-config).
- [Handle failed DDL statements](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/handle-failed-ddl-statements).

Commit message:

apply new content from zh pr
Signed-off-by: Ran <huangran@pingcap.com>

data-migration/migrate-aurora-tidb-from-snapshot.md, after:

---
title: Migrate Data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB
summary: Learn how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB using DB snapshot.
---

# Migrate Data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB

This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora to TiDB. The migration process uses [DB snapshot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/Aurora.Managing.Backups.html), which saves a lot of space and time.

The whole migration has two processes:

- Import full data to TiDB using TiDB Lightning
- Replicate incremental data to TiDB using DM (optional)

## Prerequisites

- [Install Dumpling and TiDB Lightning using TiUP](/migration-tools.md)
- [Get the target database privileges required for TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md#what-are-the-privilege-requirements-for-the-target-database).

## Import full data to TiDB using TiDB Lightning

### Step 1. Export an Aurora snapshot to Amazon S3

1. Query the current binlog position by running the following command:

    ```shell
    mysql> SHOW MASTER STATUS;
    ```

    From the output, record the binlog name and position for later use.

    ```
    +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
    | File             | Position | Binlog_Do_DB | Binlog_Ignore_DB | Executed_Gtid_Set |
    +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
    | mysql-bin.000002 |    52806 |              |                  |                   |
    +------------------+----------+--------------+------------------+-------------------+
    1 row in set (0.012 sec)
    ```

2. Export the Aurora snapshot. For detailed steps, refer to [Exporting DB snapshot data to Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/USER_ExportSnapshot.html).

After you obtain the binlog position, export the snapshot within 5 minutes. Otherwise, the recorded binlog position might be outdated and thus cause data conflict during the incremental replication.

Make sure you have the following information ready:

- The Aurora binlog name and position at the time of the snapshot creation.
- The S3 path where the snapshot is stored, and the SecretKey and AccessKey with access to the S3 path.

### Step 2. Export schema using Dumpling

Because the snapshot file does not contain the DDL statements, you need to export the schema using Dumpling and create the schema in the target database using TiDB Lightning. If you want to manually create the schema, you can skip this step.

Export the schema using Dumpling:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dumpling --host ${host} --port 3306 --user root --password ${password} --no-data --output ./schema --filter "mydb.*"
```

The options used in the command above are as follows:

|Parameter              |Description    |
|-                      |-              |
|`-u` or `--user`       |MySQL user|
|`-p` or `--password`   |MySQL user password|
|`-P` or `--port`       |MySQL port|
|`-h` or `--host`       |MySQL IP address|
|`-t` or `--thread`     |The number of threads used for export|
|`-o` or `--output`     |The directory that stores the exported file. Supports local path or [external storage URL](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md)|
|`-r` or `--row`        |The maximum number of rows in a single file|
|`-F`                   |The maximum size of a single file, in MiB|
|`-B` or `--database`   |Specifies a database to be exported|
|`-d` or `--no-data`    |Do not export data. Only export schema.|

For more options, refer to [Dumpling overview](/dumpling-overview.md).

### Step 3. Create the TiDB Lightning configuration file

Create the `tidb-lightning.toml` configuration file as follows:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
vim tidb-lighting.toml
```

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[tidb]

# The target TiDB cluster information.
host = ${host}                # e.g.: 172.16.32.1
port = ${port}                # e.g.: 4000
user = "${user_name}          # e.g.: "root"
password = "${password}"      # e.g.: "rootroot"
status-port = ${status-port}  # Obtain the table schema information from TiDB status port, e.g.: 10080
pd-addr = "${ip}:${port}"     # The cluster PD address, e.g.: 172.16.31.3:2379. TiDB Lightning obtains some information from PD. When backend = "local", you must specify status-port and pd-addr correctly. Otherwise, the import will be abnormal.

[tikv-importer]
# "local": Default. The local backend is used to import large volumes of data (1 TB or above). During the import, the target TiDB cluster cannot provide any service.
# "tidb": The "tidb" backend is used to import data below 1 TB. During the import, the target TiDB cluster can provide service normally.
backend = "local"

# Set the temporary storage directory for the sorted KV files. The directory must be empty, and the storage space must be enough to hold the largest single table in the data source. For better import performance, it is recommended to use a directory different from `data-source-dir` and use flash storage and exclusive I/O for the directory.
sorted-kv-dir = "/mnt/ssd/sorted-kv-dir"

[mydumper]
# The path that stores the snapshot file.
data-source-dir = "${s3_path}"  # e.g.: s3://bucket-name/data-path

[[mydumper.files]]
# The expression that parses the parquet file.
pattern = '(?i)^(?:[^/]*/)*([a-z0-9_]+)\.([a-z0-9_]+)/(?:[^/]*/)*(?:[a-z0-9\-_.]+\.(parquet))$'
schema = '$1'
table = '$2'
type = '$3'
```

If you need to enable TLS in the TiDB cluster, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

### Step 4. Import full data to TiDB

1. Create the tables in the target database using TiDB Lightning:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -d ./schema -no-schema=false
    ```

2. Start the import by running `tidb-lightning`. If you launch the program directly in command line, the program might exit because of the `SIGHUP` signal. In this case, it is recommended to run the program with a `nohup` or `screen` tool. For example:

    Pass the SecretKey and AccessKey that have access to the S3 storage path as environment variables to the Dumpling node. You can also read the credentials from `~/.aws/credentials`.

    You can add the `--s3.region` arguments, such as `ap-northeast-1`, to specify the region of the S3 storage. For more configurations, see [external storage](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#s3-command-line-parameters).

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=${access_key}
    export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=${secret_key}
    nohup tiup tidb-lightning -config tidb-lightning.toml -no-schema=true > nohup.out &
    ```

3. After the import starts, you can check the progress of the import by either of the following methods:

    - `grep` the keyword `progress` in the log. The progress is updated every 5 seconds.
    - Check progress in the monitoring dashboard. See [TiDB Lightning Monitoring](/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md).

4. After TiDB Lightning completes the import, it exits automatically. If you find the last 5 lines of its log prints `the whole procedure completed`, the import is successful.

> **Note:**
>
> Whether the import is successful or not, the last line of the log shows `tidb lightning exit`. It means that TiDB Lightning exits normally, but does not necessarily mean that the import is successful.

If you encounter any problem during the import, refer to [TiDB Lightning FAQ](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-faq.md) for troubleshooting.

## Replicate incremental data to TiDB (optional)

### Prerequisites

- [Install DM using TiUP](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/deploy-a-dm-cluster-using-tiup).
- [Get the source database and target database privileges required for DM](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/dm-worker-intro).

### Step 1. Create the data source

1. Create the `source1.yaml` file as follows:

    {{< copyable "" >}}

    ```yaml
    # Configuration.
    source-id: "mysql-01"     # Must be unique.

    # Configure whether DM-worker uses the global transaction identifier (GTID) to pull binlogs. To enable this mode, the upstream MySQL must also enable GTID. If the upstream MySQL has automatic source-replica switching, then GTID mode is required.
    enable-gtid: false
    from:
      host: "${host}"         # e.g.: 172.16.10.81
      user: "root"
      password: "${password}" # Supports but not recommended to use plaintext password. It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.
      port: 3306
    ```

2. Load the data source configuration to the DM cluster using `tiup dmctl` by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} operate-source create source1.yaml
    ```

    The options used in the command above are described as follows:

    |Parameter              |Description    |
    |-                      |-              |
    |`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster that `dmctl` is connecting to, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
    |`operate-source create`|Load the data source to the DM cluster.|

### Step 2. Create the migration task

Create the `task1.yaml` file as follows:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
# Task name. Multiple tasks that are running at the same time must each have a unique name.
name: "test"
# Task mode. Options are:
# - full: only performs full data migration.
# - incremental: only performs binlog real-time replication.
# - all: full data migration + binlog real-time replication.
task-mode: "incremental"
# The configuration of the target TiDB database.
target-database:
  host: "${host}"                   # e.g.: 172.16.10.83
  port: 4000
  user: "root"
  password: "${password}"           # Supports but not recommended to use plaintext password. It is recommended to use `dmctl encrypt` to encrypt the plaintext password before using it.

# Global configuration for block and allow lists. Each instance can reference the configuration by name.
block-allow-list:                     # If DM version is v2.0.0-beta.2 or earlier, use black-white-list.
  listA:                              # Name.
    do-tables:                        # Allow list for the upstream tables to be migrated.
    - db-name: "test_db"              # Name of databases to be migrated.
      tbl-name: "test_table"          # Name of tables to be migrated.

## Configure the data source.
mysql-instances:
  - source-id: "mysql-01"               # Data source ID，i.e., source-id in source1.yaml
    block-allow-list: "listA"           # Reference the block-allow-list configuration above.
#       syncer-config-name: "global"    # Reference the syncers incremental data configuration.
    meta:                               # When task-mode is "incremental" and the downstream database does not have a checkpoint, the binlog position is used as the starting point. If the downstream database has a checkpoint, use the checkpoint as the starting point.
      binlog-name: "mysql-bin.000004"   # The binlog position recorded in "Step 1. Export an Aurora snapshot to Amazon S3." When the upstream database has source-replica switching, GTID mode is required.
      binlog-pos: 109227
      # binlog-gtid: "09bec856-ba95-11ea-850a-58f2b4af5188:1-9"

   ## (Optional) If you need to incrementally replicate data that has already been migrated in the full data migration, you need to enable safe mode to avoid the incremental data replication error.
   ## This scenario is common in the following case: the full migration data does not belong to the data source's consistency snapshot, and after that, DM starts to replicate incremental data from a position earlier than the full migration.
   # syncers:            # The running configurations of the sync processing unit.
   #  global:            # Configuration name.
   #    safe-mode: true  # If this field is set to true, DM will change INSERT to REPLACE, UPDATE to DELETE and REPLACE. This is to ensure that when the table schema contains primary key or unique index, DML statements can be imported repeatedly. In the first minute of starting or resuming an incremental replication task, DM automatically enables safe mode.
```

The YAML above is the minimum configuration required for the migration task. For more configuration items, refer to [DM Advanced Task Configuration File](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/task-configuration-file-full).

### Step 3. Run the migration task

Before you start the migration task, to reduce the probability of errors, it is recommended to check whether the configuration meets the requirements of DM by running the `check-task` command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} check-task task.yaml
```

After that, start the migration task by running `tiup dmctl`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} start-task task.yaml
```

The options used in the command above are described as follows:

|Parameter              |Description    |
|-                      |-              |
|`--master-addr`        |The {advertise-addr} of any DM-master in the cluster that `dmctl` is connecting to, e.g.: 172.16.10.71:8261|
|`start-task`           |Start the migration task.|

If the task fails to start, check the prompt message and fix the configuration. After that, you can re-run the command above to start the task.

If you encounter any problem, refer to [DM error handling](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/error-handling) and [DM FAQ](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb-data-migration/stable/faq).

### Step 4. Check the migration task status

To learn whether the DM cluster has an ongoing migration task and the task status, run the `query-status` command using `tiup dmctl`:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup dmctl --master-addr ${advertise-addr} query-status ${task-name}
```

For a detailed interpretation of the results, refer to [Query Status](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/query-status).

### Step 5. Monitor the task and view logs

To view the history status of the migration task and other internal metrics, take the following steps.

If you have deployed Prometheus, Alertmanager, and Grafana when you deployed DM using TiUP, you can access Grafana using the IP address and port specified during the deployment. You can then select DM dashboard to view DM-related monitoring metrics.

When DM is running, DM-worker, DM-master, and dmctl output the related information in logs. The log directory of these components are as follows:

- DM-master: specified by the DM-master process parameter `--log-file`. If you deploy DM using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-master-8261/log/` by default.
- DM-worker: specified by the DM-worker process parameter `--log-file`. If you deploy DM using TiUP, the log directory is `/dm-deploy/dm-worker-8262/log/` by default.

## What's next

- [Pause the migration task](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/pause-task).
- [Resume the migration task](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/resume-task).
- [Stop the migration task](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/stop-task).
- [Export and import the cluster data source and task configuration](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/export-import-config).
- [Handle failed DDL statements](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-data-migration/stable/handle-failed-ddl-statements).
