information-schema/information-schema-tikv-region-status.md, before:

---
title: TIKV_REGION_STATUS
summary: Learn the `TIKV_REGION_STATUS` information_schema table.
---

# TIKV_REGION_STATUS

The `TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table shows some basic information of TiKV Regions via PD's API, like the Region ID, starting and ending key-values, and read and write traffic.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
USE information_schema;
DESC tikv_region_status;
```

```sql
+---------------------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field                     | Type        | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+---------------------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| REGION_ID                 | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| START_KEY                 | text        | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| END_KEY                   | text        | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TABLE_ID                  | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| DB_NAME                   | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TABLE_NAME                | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| IS_INDEX                  | tinyint(1)  | NO   |      | 0       |       |
| INDEX_ID                  | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| INDEX_NAME                | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| EPOCH_CONF_VER            | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| EPOCH_VERSION             | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| WRITTEN_BYTES             | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| READ_BYTES                | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| APPROXIMATE_SIZE          | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| APPROXIMATE_KEYS          | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATE   | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATEID | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+---------------------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
17 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

The descriptions of the columns in the `TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table are as follows:

* `REGION_ID`: The ID of the Region.
* `START_KEY`: The value of the start key of the Region.
* `END_KEY`: The value of the end key of the Region.
* `TABLE_ID`: The ID of the table to which the Region belongs.
* `DB_NAME`: The name of the database to which `TABLE_ID` belongs.
* `TABLE_NAME`: The name of the table to which the Region belongs.
* `IS_INDEX`: Whether the Region data is an index. 0 means that it is not an index, while 1 means that it is an index. If the current Region contains both table data and index data, there will be multiple rows of records, and `IS_INDEX` is 0 and 1 respectively.
* `INDEX_ID`: The ID of the index to which the Region belongs. If `IS_INDEX` is 0, the value of this column is NULL.
* `INDEX_NAME`: The name of the index to which the Region belongs. If `IS_INDEX` is 0, the value of this column is NULL.
* `EPOCH_CONF_VER`: The version number of the Region configuration. The version number increases when a peer is added or removed.
* `EPOCH_VERSION`: The current version number of the Region. The version number increases when the Region is split or merged.
* `WRITTEN_BYTES`: The amount of data (bytes) written to the Region.
* `READ_BYTES`: The amount of data (bytes) that has been read from the Region.
* `APPROXIMATE_SIZE`: The approximate data size (MB) of the Region.
* `APPROXIMATE_KEYS`: The approximate number of keys in the Region.
* `REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATE`: The current replication status of the Region. The status might be `UNKNOWN`, `SIMPLE_MAJORITY`, or `INTEGRITY_OVER_LABEL`.
* `REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATEID`: The identifier corresponding to `REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATE`.

Also, you can implement the `top confver`, `top read` and `top write` operations in pd-ctl via the `ORDER BY X LIMIT Y` operation on the `EPOCH_CONF_VER`, `WRITTEN_BYTES` and `READ_BYTES` columns.

You can query the top 3 Regions with the most write data using the following SQL statement:

```sql
SELECT * FROM tikv_region_status ORDER BY written_bytes DESC LIMIT 3;
```

Commit message:

This is an automated cherry-pick of #14674
Signed-off-by: ti-chi-bot <ti-community-prow-bot@tidb.io>

information-schema/information-schema-tikv-region-status.md, after:

---
title: TIKV_REGION_STATUS
summary: Learn the `TIKV_REGION_STATUS` information_schema table.
---

# TIKV_REGION_STATUS

The `TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table shows some basic information of TiKV Regions via PD's API, like the Region ID, starting and ending key-values, and read and write traffic.

> **Note:**
>
> This table is not available on [TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/select-cluster-tier#tidb-serverless) clusters.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
USE information_schema;
DESC tikv_region_status;
```

```sql
+---------------------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field                     | Type        | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+---------------------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| REGION_ID                 | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| START_KEY                 | text        | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| END_KEY                   | text        | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TABLE_ID                  | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| DB_NAME                   | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TABLE_NAME                | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| IS_INDEX                  | tinyint(1)  | NO   |      | 0       |       |
| INDEX_ID                  | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| INDEX_NAME                | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| EPOCH_CONF_VER            | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| EPOCH_VERSION             | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| WRITTEN_BYTES             | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| READ_BYTES                | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| APPROXIMATE_SIZE          | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| APPROXIMATE_KEYS          | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATE   | varchar(64) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATEID | bigint(21)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+---------------------------+-------------+------+------+---------+-------+
17 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

The descriptions of the columns in the `TIKV_REGION_STATUS` table are as follows:

* `REGION_ID`: The ID of the Region.
* `START_KEY`: The value of the start key of the Region.
* `END_KEY`: The value of the end key of the Region.
* `TABLE_ID`: The ID of the table to which the Region belongs.
* `DB_NAME`: The name of the database to which `TABLE_ID` belongs.
* `TABLE_NAME`: The name of the table to which the Region belongs.
* `IS_INDEX`: Whether the Region data is an index. 0 means that it is not an index, while 1 means that it is an index. If the current Region contains both table data and index data, there will be multiple rows of records, and `IS_INDEX` is 0 and 1 respectively.
* `INDEX_ID`: The ID of the index to which the Region belongs. If `IS_INDEX` is 0, the value of this column is NULL.
* `INDEX_NAME`: The name of the index to which the Region belongs. If `IS_INDEX` is 0, the value of this column is NULL.
* `EPOCH_CONF_VER`: The version number of the Region configuration. The version number increases when a peer is added or removed.
* `EPOCH_VERSION`: The current version number of the Region. The version number increases when the Region is split or merged.
* `WRITTEN_BYTES`: The amount of data (bytes) written to the Region.
* `READ_BYTES`: The amount of data (bytes) that has been read from the Region.
* `APPROXIMATE_SIZE`: The approximate data size (MB) of the Region.
* `APPROXIMATE_KEYS`: The approximate number of keys in the Region.
* `REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATE`: The current replication status of the Region. The status might be `UNKNOWN`, `SIMPLE_MAJORITY`, or `INTEGRITY_OVER_LABEL`.
* `REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATEID`: The identifier corresponding to `REPLICATIONSTATUS_STATE`.

Also, you can implement the `top confver`, `top read` and `top write` operations in pd-ctl via the `ORDER BY X LIMIT Y` operation on the `EPOCH_CONF_VER`, `WRITTEN_BYTES` and `READ_BYTES` columns.

You can query the top 3 Regions with the most write data using the following SQL statement:

```sql
SELECT * FROM tikv_region_status ORDER BY written_bytes DESC LIMIT 3;
```
