information-schema/information-schema-inspection-rules.md, before:

---
title: INSPECTION_RULES
summary: Learn the `INSPECTION_RULES` information_schema table.
---

# INSPECTION_RULES

The `INSPECTION_RULES` table provides information about which diagnostic tests are run in an inspection result. See [inspection result](/information-schema/information-schema-inspection-result.md) for example usage.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
USE information_schema;
DESC inspection_rules;
```

```
+---------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field   | Type         | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+---------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| NAME    | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TYPE    | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| COMMENT | varchar(256) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+---------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT * FROM inspection_rules;
```

```
+-----------------+------------+---------+
| NAME            | TYPE       | COMMENT |
+-----------------+------------+---------+
| config          | inspection |         |
| version         | inspection |         |
| node-load       | inspection |         |
| critical-error  | inspection |         |
| threshold-check | inspection |         |
| ddl             | summary    |         |
| gc              | summary    |         |
| pd              | summary    |         |
| query-summary   | summary    |         |
| raftstore       | summary    |         |
| read-link       | summary    |         |
| rocksdb         | summary    |         |
| stats           | summary    |         |
| wait-events     | summary    |         |
| write-link      | summary    |         |
+-----------------+------------+---------+
15 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

Commit message:

This is an automated cherry-pick of #14674
Signed-off-by: ti-chi-bot <ti-community-prow-bot@tidb.io>

information-schema/information-schema-inspection-rules.md, after:

---
title: INSPECTION_RULES
summary: Learn the `INSPECTION_RULES` information_schema table.
---

# INSPECTION_RULES

The `INSPECTION_RULES` table provides information about which diagnostic tests are run in an inspection result. See [inspection result](/information-schema/information-schema-inspection-result.md) for example usage.

> **Note:**
>
> This table is only applicable to TiDB Self-Hosted and not available on [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/).

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
USE information_schema;
DESC inspection_rules;
```

```
+---------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field   | Type         | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+---------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| NAME    | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TYPE    | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| COMMENT | varchar(256) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+---------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT * FROM inspection_rules;
```

```
+-----------------+------------+---------+
| NAME            | TYPE       | COMMENT |
+-----------------+------------+---------+
| config          | inspection |         |
| version         | inspection |         |
| node-load       | inspection |         |
| critical-error  | inspection |         |
| threshold-check | inspection |         |
| ddl             | summary    |         |
| gc              | summary    |         |
| pd              | summary    |         |
| query-summary   | summary    |         |
| raftstore       | summary    |         |
| read-link       | summary    |         |
| rocksdb         | summary    |         |
| stats           | summary    |         |
| wait-events     | summary    |         |
| write-link      | summary    |         |
+-----------------+------------+---------+
15 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```
