information-schema/information-schema-metrics-tables.md, before:

---
title: METRICS_TABLES
summary: Learn the `METRICS_TABLES` system table.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/system-tables/system-table-metrics-tables/','/docs/dev/reference/system-databases/metrics-tables/','/tidb/dev/system-table-metrics-tables/']
---

# METRICS_TABLES

The `METRICS_TABLES` table provides the PromQL (Prometheus Query Language) definition for each of the views in the [`METRICS_SCHEMA`](/metrics-schema.md) database.

```sql
USE INFORMATION_SCHEMA;
DESC METRICS_TABLES;
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
+------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field      | Type         | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| TABLE_NAME | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| PROMQL     | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| LABELS     | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| QUANTILE   | double       | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| COMMENT    | varchar(256) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
```

Field description:

* `TABLE_NAME`: Corresponds to the table name in `METRICS_SCHEMA`.
* `PROMQL`: The working principle of the monitoring table is to map SQL statements to `PromQL` and convert Prometheus results into SQL query results. This field is the expression template of `PromQL`. When you query the data of the monitoring table, the query conditions are used to rewrite the variables in this template to generate the final query expression.
* `LABELS`: The label for the monitoring item. Each label corresponds to a column in the monitoring table. If the SQL statement contains the filter of the corresponding column, the corresponding `PromQL` changes accordingly.
* `QUANTILE`: The percentile. For monitoring data of the histogram type, a default percentile is specified. If the value of this field is `0`, it means that the monitoring item corresponding to the monitoring table is not a histogram.
* `COMMENT`: The comment about the monitoring table.

```sql
SELECT * FROM metrics_tables LIMIT 5\G
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
*************************** 1. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: abnormal_stores
    PROMQL: sum(pd_cluster_status{ type=~"store_disconnected_count|store_unhealth_count|store_low_space_count|store_down_count|store_offline_count|store_tombstone_count"})
    LABELS: instance,type
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT:
*************************** 2. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_disk_wal_fsync_rate
    PROMQL: delta(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_count{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT: The rate of writing WAL into the persistent storage
*************************** 3. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_wal_fsync_duration
    PROMQL: histogram_quantile($QUANTILE, sum(rate(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_bucket{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])) by (le,instance))
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0.99
   COMMENT: The quantile time consumed of writing WAL into the persistent storage
*************************** 4. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_wal_fsync_total_count
    PROMQL: sum(increase(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_count{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])) by (instance)
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT: The total count of writing WAL into the persistent storage
*************************** 5. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_wal_fsync_total_time
    PROMQL: sum(increase(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_sum{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])) by (instance)
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT: The total time of writing WAL into the persistent storage
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

Commit message:

This is an automated cherry-pick of #14674
Signed-off-by: ti-chi-bot <ti-community-prow-bot@tidb.io>

information-schema/information-schema-metrics-tables.md, after:

---
title: METRICS_TABLES
summary: Learn the `METRICS_TABLES` system table.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/system-tables/system-table-metrics-tables/','/docs/dev/reference/system-databases/metrics-tables/','/tidb/dev/system-table-metrics-tables/']
---

# METRICS_TABLES

The `METRICS_TABLES` table provides the PromQL (Prometheus Query Language) definition for each of the views in the [`METRICS_SCHEMA`](/metrics-schema.md) database.

> **Note:**
>
> This table is only applicable to TiDB Self-Hosted and not available on [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/).

```sql
USE INFORMATION_SCHEMA;
DESC METRICS_TABLES;
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
+------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field      | Type         | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| TABLE_NAME | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| PROMQL     | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| LABELS     | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| QUANTILE   | double       | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| COMMENT    | varchar(256) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
```

Field description:

* `TABLE_NAME`: Corresponds to the table name in `METRICS_SCHEMA`.
* `PROMQL`: The working principle of the monitoring table is to map SQL statements to `PromQL` and convert Prometheus results into SQL query results. This field is the expression template of `PromQL`. When you query the data of the monitoring table, the query conditions are used to rewrite the variables in this template to generate the final query expression.
* `LABELS`: The label for the monitoring item. Each label corresponds to a column in the monitoring table. If the SQL statement contains the filter of the corresponding column, the corresponding `PromQL` changes accordingly.
* `QUANTILE`: The percentile. For monitoring data of the histogram type, a default percentile is specified. If the value of this field is `0`, it means that the monitoring item corresponding to the monitoring table is not a histogram.
* `COMMENT`: The comment about the monitoring table.

```sql
SELECT * FROM metrics_tables LIMIT 5\G
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
*************************** 1. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: abnormal_stores
    PROMQL: sum(pd_cluster_status{ type=~"store_disconnected_count|store_unhealth_count|store_low_space_count|store_down_count|store_offline_count|store_tombstone_count"})
    LABELS: instance,type
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT:
*************************** 2. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_disk_wal_fsync_rate
    PROMQL: delta(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_count{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT: The rate of writing WAL into the persistent storage
*************************** 3. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_wal_fsync_duration
    PROMQL: histogram_quantile($QUANTILE, sum(rate(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_bucket{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])) by (le,instance))
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0.99
   COMMENT: The quantile time consumed of writing WAL into the persistent storage
*************************** 4. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_wal_fsync_total_count
    PROMQL: sum(increase(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_count{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])) by (instance)
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT: The total count of writing WAL into the persistent storage
*************************** 5. row ***************************
TABLE_NAME: etcd_wal_fsync_total_time
    PROMQL: sum(increase(etcd_disk_wal_fsync_duration_seconds_sum{$LABEL_CONDITIONS}[$RANGE_DURATION])) by (instance)
    LABELS: instance
  QUANTILE: 0
   COMMENT: The total time of writing WAL into the persistent storage
5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```
