information-schema/information-schema-tidb-servers-info.md, before:

---
title: TIDB_SERVERS_INFO
summary: Learn the `TIDB_SERVERS_INFO` INFORMATION_SCHEMA table.
---

# TIDB_SERVERS_INFO

The `TIDB_SERVERS_INFO` table provides information about TiDB servers in the TiDB Cluster (namely, tidb-server processes).

```sql
USE INFORMATION_SCHEMA;
DESC tidb_servers_info;
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
+---------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field         | Type         | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+---------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| DDL_ID        | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| IP            | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| PORT          | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| STATUS_PORT   | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| LEASE         | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| VERSION       | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| GIT_HASH      | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| BINLOG_STATUS | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| LABELS        | varchar(128) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+---------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
9 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

View the `TIDB_SERVERS_INFO` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM TIDB_SERVERS_INFO\G
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
*************************** 1. row ***************************
       DDL_ID: 771c169d-0a3a-48ea-a93c-a4d6751d3674
           IP: 0.0.0.0
         PORT: 4000
  STATUS_PORT: 10080
        LEASE: 45s
      VERSION: 5.7.25-TiDB-v7.3.0
     GIT_HASH: 827d8ff2d22ac4c93ae1b841b79d468211e1d393
BINLOG_STATUS: Off
       LABELS:
1 row in set (0.006 sec)
```

Commit message:

This is an automated cherry-pick of #14674
Signed-off-by: ti-chi-bot <ti-community-prow-bot@tidb.io>

information-schema/information-schema-tidb-servers-info.md, after:

---
title: TIDB_SERVERS_INFO
summary: Learn the `TIDB_SERVERS_INFO` INFORMATION_SCHEMA table.
---

# TIDB_SERVERS_INFO

The `TIDB_SERVERS_INFO` table provides information about TiDB servers in the TiDB Cluster (namely, tidb-server processes).

> **Note:**
>
> This table is not available on [TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/select-cluster-tier#tidb-serverless) clusters.

```sql
USE INFORMATION_SCHEMA;
DESC tidb_servers_info;
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
+---------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| Field         | Type         | Null | Key  | Default | Extra |
+---------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
| DDL_ID        | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| IP            | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| PORT          | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| STATUS_PORT   | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| LEASE         | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| VERSION       | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| GIT_HASH      | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| BINLOG_STATUS | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| LABELS        | varchar(128) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+---------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
9 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

View the `TIDB_SERVERS_INFO` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM TIDB_SERVERS_INFO\G
```

The output is as follows:

```sql
*************************** 1. row ***************************
       DDL_ID: 771c169d-0a3a-48ea-a93c-a4d6751d3674
           IP: 0.0.0.0
         PORT: 4000
  STATUS_PORT: 10080
        LEASE: 45s
      VERSION: 5.7.25-TiDB-v7.3.0
     GIT_HASH: 827d8ff2d22ac4c93ae1b841b79d468211e1d393
BINLOG_STATUS: Off
       LABELS:
1 row in set (0.006 sec)
```
