.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

<!--Thanks for your contribution to TiDB documentation. Please answer the following questions.-->

### What is changed, added or deleted? (Required)

<!--Tell us what you did and why.-->

### Which TiDB version(s) do your changes apply to? (Required)

<!-- You **must** choose the TiDB version(s) that your changes apply to. Fill in "x" in [] to tick the checkbox below.-->

- [ ] master (the latest development version)
- [ ] v4.0 (TiDB 4.0 versions)
- [ ] v3.1 (TiDB 3.1 versions)
- [ ] v3.0 (TiDB 3.0 versions)
- [ ] v2.1 (TiDB 2.1 versions)

<!-- For contributors with **WRITE ACCESS** in this repo:
If you select **two or more** versions from above, to trigger the bot to cherry-pick this PR to your desired release branch(es), you **must** add labels such as "needs-cherry-pick-4.0", "needs-cherry-pick-3.1", "needs-cherry-pick-3.0", or "needs-cherry-pick-2.1" on the right side of this PR page.-->

### What is the related PR or file link(s)?

<!--Give us some reference link(s) that might help quickly review and merge your PR.-->

- This PR is translated from:
- Other reference link(s):

### Do your changes match any of the following descriptions?

<!-- Provide as much information as possible so that reviewers can review your changes more efficiently.
If you are not sure of the options, leave it as it is. -->

- [ ] Delete files
- [ ] Change aliases
- [ ] Have version specific changes <!-- If yes, please add the label "version-specific-changes-required"-->
- [ ] Might cause conflicts

Commit message:

add guide to sign CLA

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

<!--Thanks for your contribution to TiDB documentation. Please answer the following questions.-->

### What is changed, added or deleted? (Required)

<!--Tell us what you did and why.-->

### Which TiDB version(s) do your changes apply to? (Required)

<!-- You must choose the TiDB version(s) that your changes apply to. Fill in "x" in [] to tick the checkbox below.-->

- [ ] master (the latest development version)
- [ ] v4.0 (TiDB 4.0 versions)
- [ ] v3.1 (TiDB 3.1 versions)
- [ ] v3.0 (TiDB 3.0 versions)
- [ ] v2.1 (TiDB 2.1 versions)

### What is the related PR or file link(s)?

<!--Give us some reference link(s) that might help quickly review and merge your PR.-->

- This PR is translated from:
- Other reference link(s):

### Do your changes match any of the following descriptions?

<!-- Provide as much information as possible so that reviewers can review your changes more efficiently.
If you are not sure of the options, leave it as it is. -->

- [ ] Delete files
- [ ] Change aliases
- [ ] Have version specific changes <!-- If yes, please add the label "version-specific-changes-required"-->
- [ ] Might cause conflicts

### Sign the CLA

If you are a **first-time-contributor** of this repo, make sure you **sign the [Contributor License Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/pingcap/docs)** before we can accept your contribution.
