---
title: Glossary
summary: Glossaries about TiDB.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/glossary/']
---

# Glossary

## A

### ACID

ACID refers to the four key properties of a transaction: atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability. Each of these properties is described below.

- **Atomicity** means that either all the changes of an operation are performed, or none of them are. TiDB ensures the atomicity of the [Region](#regionpeerraft-group) that stores the Primary Key to achieve the atomicity of transactions.

- **Consistency** means that transactions always bring the database from one consistent state to another. In TiDB, data consistency is ensured before writing data to the memory.

- **Isolation** means that a transaction in process is invisible to other transactions until it completes. This allows concurrent transactions to read and write data without sacrificing consistency. TiDB currently supports the isolation level of `REPEATABLE READ`.

- **Durability** means that once a transaction is committed, it remains committed even in the event of a system failure. TiKV uses persistent storage to ensure durability.

## B

### Batch Create Table

Batch Create Table is a feature introduced in TiDB v6.0.0. This feature is enabled default. When restoring data with a large number of tables (nearly 50000) using BR (Backup & Restore), the feature can greatly speed up the restore process by creating tables in batches. For details, see [Batch Create Table](/br/br-batch-create-table.md).

### Baseline Capturing

Baseline Capturing captures queries that meet capturing conditions and create bindings for them. It is used for [preventing regression of execution plans during an upgrade](/sql-plan-management.md#prevent-regression-of-execution-plans-during-an-upgrade).

### Binlog

In TiDB, binlog refers to a type of binary log generated by TiDB, MySQL, or MariaDB. It is used to record the changes of table structure (such as `CREATE` and `ALTER TABLE` statements) and table data (such as `INSERT`, `DELETE`, and `UPDATE` statements) in TiDB or other upstream and downstream databases.

### Bucket

A [Region](#regionpeerraft-group) is logically divided into several small ranges called bucket. TiKV collects query statistics by buckets and reports the bucket status to PD. For details, see the [Bucket design doc](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/text/0082-dynamic-size-region.md#bucket).

## C

### Cached Table

With the cached table feature, TiDB loads the data of an entire table into the memory of the TiDB server, and TiDB directly gets the table data from the memory without accessing TiKV, which improves the read performance.

### Coalesce Partition

Coalesce Partition is a way of decreasing the number of partitions in a Hash or Key partitioned table. For more information, see [Manage Hash and Key partitions](/partitioned-table.md#manage-hash-and-key-partitions).

### Common table expression (CTE)

A Common Table Expression (CTE) is a temporary result set that can be referred to multiple times within a SQL statement to improve the statement readability and execution efficiency. You can apply the `WITH` statement to use CTE.

Common Table Expressions can be classified into two types: non-recursive CTE and recursive CTE.

For details, see [Common table expression (CTE)](/develop/dev-guide-use-common-table-expression.md).

### Cluster

The collection of TiDB database and its components deployed on multiple node servers. Each node runs an instance to provide services to clients.

### Coprocessor

A coprocessing mechanism that shares the computation workload with TiDB. It is located in the storage layer (TiKV or TiFlash) and collaboratively processes computations pushed down from TiDB on a per-region basis.

### Continuous Profiling

Introduced in TiDB 5.3.0, Continuous Profiling is a way to observe resource overhead at the system call level. With the support of Continuous Profiling, TiDB provides performance insight as clear as directly looking into the database source code, and helps R&D and operation and maintenance personnel to locate the root cause of performance problems using a flame graph. For details, see [TiDB Dashboard Instance Profiling - Continuous Profiling](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md).

## D

### Dumpling

Dumpling is a data export tool for exporting data stored in TiDB/MySQL as SQL or CSV data files and can be used to make a logical full backup or export. Dumpling also supports exporting data to Amazon S3.

For details, see [Use Dumpling to Export Data](/dumpling-overview.md).

### Dynamic Pruning

Dynamic pruning mode is one of the modes that TiDB accesses partitioned tables. In dynamic pruning mode, each operator supports direct access to multiple partitions. Therefore, TiDB no longer uses Union. Omitting the Union operation can improve the execution efficiency and avoid the problem of Union concurrent execution.

## E

### Expression index

The expression index is a type of special index that can be created on an expression. Once an expression index is created, TiDB can use the index for the expression-based query, which significantly improves the query performance.

For details, see [CREATE INDEX - Expression index](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index).

## G

### GC (Garbage Collection)

Garbage collection (GC) is the memory resource management mechanism in TiDB. When old data in dynamic memory is no longer needed, it is cleaned up to free up memory.

For details, see [GC Overview](/garbage-collection-overview.md).

## H

### Hotspot

Hotspot refers to the phenomenon where the read and write workload of TiKV is concentrated on one or several regions or nodes, which might cause performance bottlenecks and prevent optimal performance. To solve hotspot issues, refer to [Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues](/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md).

### HTAP

HTAP stands for "Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing". TiDB HTAP can meet the growing demand for managing massive data, reduce operational risk costs, seamlessly integrate with existing big data tech stacks, and realize real-time monetization of data assets. In TiDB, TiKV, the row storage engine for online transaction processing coexists with TiFlash, the column storage engine for real-time analysis scenarios. Data is automatically replicated between the two storage engines to maintain strong consistency.

For details, refer to [Quick Start Guide for TiDB HTAP](/quick-start-with-htap.md) and [Explore HTAP](/explore-htap.md).

## I

### Index Merge

Index Merge is a method introduced in TiDB v4.0 to access tables. Using this method, the TiDB optimizer can use multiple indexes per table and merge the results returned by each index. In some scenarios, this method makes the query more efficient by avoiding full table scans. Since v5.4, Index Merge has become a GA feature.

### In-Memory Pessimistic Lock

The in-memory pessimistic lock is a new feature introduced in TiDB v6.0.0. When this feature is enabled, pessimistic locks are usually stored in the memory of the Region leader only, and are not persisted to disk or replicated through Raft to other replicas. This feature can greatly reduce the overhead of acquiring pessimistic locks and improve the throughput of pessimistic transactions.

## L

### leader/follower/learner

Leader/Follower/Learner each corresponds to a role in a Raft group of [peers](#regionpeerraft-group). The leader services all client requests and replicates data to the followers. If the group leader fails, one of the followers will be elected as the new leader. Learners are non-voting followers that only serves in the process of replica addition.

### Lock View

The Lock View feature is used to provide more information about lock conflicts and lock waits in pessimistic locking, making it convenient for DBAs to observe transaction locking situations and troubleshoot deadlock issues.

For details, see system table documentation: [`TIDB_TRX`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-trx.md), [`DATA_LOCK_WAITS`](/information-schema/information-schema-data-lock-waits.md), and [`DEADLOCKS`](/information-schema/information-schema-deadlocks.md).

## M

### MPP

MPP is the computing architecture introduced in TiDB v5.0, which involves cross-node data exchange (data shuffle process) during computation. It enables large table join queries to be completed jointly by different TiFlash nodes, thereby accelerating the computation process and improving query performance.

For details, see [Use TiFlash MPP Mode](/tiflash/use-tiflash-mpp-mode.md).

### Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)

MVCC is a concurrency control mechanism in TiDB. It processes the memory read by transactions to achieve concurrent access to TiDB, thereby avoiding blocking caused by conflicts between concurrent reads and writes.

## O

### Old value

The "original value" in the incremental change log output by TiCDC. You can specify whether the incremental change log output by TiCDC contains the "original value".

### Online transactional processing (OLTP)

Online transactional processing (OLTP) refers to the use of computer systems to process transactional data.

### Operator

An operator is a collection of actions that applies to a Region for scheduling purposes. Operators perform scheduling tasks such as "migrate the leader of Region 2 to Store 5" and "migrate replicas of Region 2 to Store 1, 4, 5".

An operator can be computed and generated by a [scheduler](#scheduler), or created by an external API.

### Operator step

An operator step is a step in the execution of an operator. An operator normally contains multiple Operator steps.

Currently, available steps generated by PD include:

- `TransferLeader`: Transfers leadership to a specified member
- `AddPeer`: Adds peers to a specified store
- `RemovePeer`: Removes a peer of a Region
- `AddLearner`: Adds learners to a specified store
- `PromoteLearner`: Promotes a specified learner to a voting member
- `SplitRegion`: Splits a specified Region into two

### Optimistic transaction

Optimistic transactions are transactions that use optimistic concurrency control and generally do not cause conflicts in concurrent environments. After enabling optimistic transactions, TiDB only checks for conflicts when the transaction is finally committed. The optimistic transaction mode is suitable for concurrent scenarios with more reads and fewer writes, which can improve the performance of TiDB.

Starting from v3.0.8, TiDB clusters default to pessimistic transaction mode. However, if a cluster created before v3.0.7 is upgraded to v3.0.8 or later, the default transaction mode will not be changed; only newly created clusters will default to pessimistic transaction mode. For details, refer to [TiDB Optimistic Transaction Model](/optimistic-transaction.md).

## P

### Partitioning

[Partitioning](/partitioned-table.md) refers to physically dividing a table into smaller table partitions, which can be done by partition methods such as RANGE, LIST, HASH, and KEY partitioning. These smaller partitions are called partitioned table.

### PD Control (pd-ctl)

PD Control (pd-ctl) is a command-line tool for PD, used to obtain cluster status information and modify the cluster. For details, see [PD Control User Guide](/pd-control.md).

### pending/down

"Pending" and "down" are two special states of a peer. Pending indicates that the Raft log of followers or learners is vastly different from that of leader. Followers in pending cannot be elected as leader. "Down" refers to a state that a peer ceases to respond to leader for a long time, which usually means the corresponding node is down or isolated from the network.

### Point Get

Point get means reading a single row of data by a unique index or primary index, the returned resultset is up to one row.

### Predicate columns

In most cases, when executing SQL statements, the optimizer only uses statistics of some columns (such as columns in the `WHERE`, `JOIN`, `ORDER BY`, and `GROUP BY` statements). These used columns are called predicate columns. For details, see [Collect statistics on some columns](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-on-some-columns).

## Q

### Quota Limiter

Quota Limiter is an experimental feature introduced in TiDB v6.0.0. If the machine on which TiKV is deployed has limited resources, for example, with only 4v CPU and 16 G memory, and the foreground of TiKV processes too many read and write requests, the CPU resources used by the background are occupied to help process such requests, which affects the performance stability of TiKV. To avoid this situation, the [quota-related configuration items](/tikv-configuration-file.md#quota) can be set to limit the CPU resources to be used by the foreground.

## R

### Raft Engine

Raft Engine is an embedded persistent storage engine with a log-structured design. It is built for TiKV to store multi-Raft logs. Since v5.4, TiDB supports using Raft Engine as the log storage engine. For details, see [Raft Engine](/tikv-configuration-file.md#raft-engine).

### Region/peer/Raft group

Region is the minimal piece of data storage in TiKV, each representing a range of data (96 MiB by default). Each Region has three replicas by default. A replica of a Region is called a peer. Multiple peers of the same Region replicate data via the Raft consensus algorithm, so peers are also members of a Raft instance. TiKV uses Multi-Raft to manage data. That is, for each Region, there is a corresponding, isolated Raft group.

### Region split

Regions are generated as data writes increase. The process of splitting is called Region split.

The mechanism of Region split is to use one initial Region to cover the entire key space, and generate new Regions through splitting existing ones every time the size of the Region or the number of keys has reached a threshold.

### restore

Restore is the reverse of the backup operation. It is the process of bringing back the system to an earlier state by retrieving data from a prepared backup.

## S

### scheduler

Schedulers are components in PD that generate scheduling tasks. Each scheduler in PD runs independently and serves different purposes. The commonly used schedulers are:

- `balance-leader-scheduler`: Balances the distribution of leaders
- `balance-region-scheduler`: Balances the distribution of peers
- `hot-region-scheduler`: Balances the distribution of hot Regions
- `evict-leader-{store-id}`: Evicts all leaders of a node (often used for rolling upgrades)

### Store

A store refers to the storage node in the TiKV cluster (an instance of `tikv-server`). Each store has a corresponding TiKV instance.

## T

### Top SQL

Top SQL helps locate SQL queries that contribute to a high load of a TiDB or TiKV node in a specified time range. For details, see [Top SQL user document](/dashboard/top-sql.md).

### TSO

Because TiKV is a distributed storage system, it requires a global timing service, Timestamp Oracle (TSO), to assign a monotonically increasing timestamp. In TiKV, such a feature is provided by PD, and in Google [Spanner](http://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//archive/spanner-osdi2012.pdf), this feature is provided by multiple atomic clocks and GPS.

### TTL

[Time to live (TTL)](/time-to-live.md) is a feature that allows you to manage TiDB data lifetime at the row level. For a table with the TTL attribute, TiDB automatically checks data lifetime and deletes expired data at the row level.
