mysql-schema.md, before:

---
title: mysql Schema
summary: Learn about the TiDB system tables.
---

# `mysql` Schema

The `mysql` schema contains TiDB system tables. The design is similar to the `mysql` schema in MySQL, where tables such as `mysql.user` can be edited directly. It also contains a number of tables which are extensions to MySQL.

## Grant system tables

These system tables contain grant information about user accounts and their privileges:

- `user`: user accounts, global privileges, and other non-privilege columns
- `db`: database-level privileges
- `tables_priv`: table-level privileges
- `columns_priv`: column-level privileges
- `password_history`: password change history
- `default_roles`: the default roles for a user
- `global_grants`: dynamic privileges
- `global_priv`: the authentication information based on certificates
- `role_edges`: the relationship between roles

## Server-side help system tables

Currently, the `help_topic` is NULL.

## Statistics system tables

- `stats_buckets`: the buckets of statistics
- `stats_histograms`: the histograms of statistics
- `stats_top_n`: the TopN of statistics
- `stats_meta`: the meta information of tables, such as the total number of rows and updated rows
- `stats_extended`: extended statistics, such as the order correlation between columns
- `stats_feedback`: the query feedback of statistics
- `stats_fm_sketch`: the FMSketch distribution of the histogram of the statistics column
- `analyze_options`: the default `analyze` options for each table
- `column_stats_usage`: the usage of column statistics
- `schema_index_usage`: the usage of indexes
- `analyze_jobs`: the ongoing statistics collection tasks and the history task records within the last 7 days

## Execution plan-related system tables

- `bind_info`: the binding information of execution plans
- `capture_plan_baselines_blacklist`: the blocklist for the automatic binding of the execution plan

## GC worker system tables

- `gc_delete_range`: the KV range to be deleted
- `gc_delete_range_done`: the deleted KV range

## System tables related to cached tables

- `table_cache_meta` stores the metadata of cached tables.

## TTL related system tables

* `mysql.tidb_ttl_table_status` the previously executed TTL job and ongoing TTL job for all TTL tables
* `mysql.tidb_ttl_task` the current ongoing TTL subtasks
* `mysql.tidb_ttl_job_history` the execution history of TTL tasks in the last 90 days

## Miscellaneous system tables

- `GLOBAL_VARIABLES`: global system variable table

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

- `tidb`: to record the version information when TiDB executes `bootstrap`
- `expr_pushdown_blacklist`: the blocklist for expression pushdown
- `opt_rule_blacklist`: the blocklist for logical optimization rules
- `table_cache_meta`: the metadata of cached tables

</CustomContent>

Commit message:

cloud: update the TiDB Cloud support info in TiDB SQL docs (#14674)

mysql-schema.md, after:

---
title: mysql Schema
summary: Learn about the TiDB system tables.
---

# `mysql` Schema

The `mysql` schema contains TiDB system tables. The design is similar to the `mysql` schema in MySQL, where tables such as `mysql.user` can be edited directly. It also contains a number of tables which are extensions to MySQL.

## Grant system tables

These system tables contain grant information about user accounts and their privileges:

- `user`: user accounts, global privileges, and other non-privilege columns
- `db`: database-level privileges
- `tables_priv`: table-level privileges
- `columns_priv`: column-level privileges
- `password_history`: password change history
- `default_roles`: the default roles for a user
- `global_grants`: dynamic privileges
- `global_priv`: the authentication information based on certificates
- `role_edges`: the relationship between roles

## Server-side help system tables

Currently, the `help_topic` is NULL.

## Statistics system tables

- `stats_buckets`: the buckets of statistics
- `stats_histograms`: the histograms of statistics
- `stats_top_n`: the TopN of statistics
- `stats_meta`: the meta information of tables, such as the total number of rows and updated rows
- `stats_extended`: extended statistics, such as the order correlation between columns
- `stats_feedback`: the query feedback of statistics
- `stats_fm_sketch`: the FMSketch distribution of the histogram of the statistics column
- `analyze_options`: the default `analyze` options for each table
- `column_stats_usage`: the usage of column statistics
- `schema_index_usage`: the usage of indexes
- `analyze_jobs`: the ongoing statistics collection tasks and the history task records within the last 7 days

## Execution plan-related system tables

- `bind_info`: the binding information of execution plans
- `capture_plan_baselines_blacklist`: the blocklist for the automatic binding of the execution plan

## GC worker system tables

> **Note:**
>
> The GC worker system tables are only applicable to TiDB Self-Hosted and not available on [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/).

- `gc_delete_range`: the KV range to be deleted
- `gc_delete_range_done`: the deleted KV range

## System tables related to cached tables

- `table_cache_meta` stores the metadata of cached tables.

## TTL related system tables

> **Note:**
>
> The TTL related system tables are not available on [TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/select-cluster-tier#tidb-serverless) clusters.

* `mysql.tidb_ttl_table_status` the previously executed TTL job and ongoing TTL job for all TTL tables
* `mysql.tidb_ttl_task` the current ongoing TTL subtasks
* `mysql.tidb_ttl_job_history` the execution history of TTL tasks in the last 90 days

## Miscellaneous system tables

> **Note:**
>
> The `tidb`, `expr_pushdown_blacklist`, `opt_rule_blacklist`, and `table_cache_meta` system tables are only applicable to TiDB Self-Hosted and not available on [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/).

- `GLOBAL_VARIABLES`: global system variable table
- `tidb`: to record the version information when TiDB executes `bootstrap`
- `expr_pushdown_blacklist`: the blocklist for expression pushdown
- `opt_rule_blacklist`: the blocklist for logical optimization rules
- `table_cache_meta`: the metadata of cached tables
