optimizer-hints.md, before:

---
title: Optimizer Hints
summary: Use Optimizer Hints to influence query execution plans
aliases: ['/docs/dev/optimizer-hints/','/docs/dev/reference/performance/optimizer-hints/']
---

# Optimizer Hints

TiDB supports optimizer hints, which are based on the comment-like syntax introduced in MySQL 5.7. For example, one of the common syntaxes is `/*+ HINT_NAME([t1_name [, t2_name] ...]) */`. Use of optimizer hints is recommended in cases where the TiDB optimizer selects a less optimal query plan.

> **Note:**
>
> MySQL command-line clients earlier than 5.7.7 strip optimizer hints by default. If you want to use the `Hint` syntax in these earlier versions, add the `--comments` option when starting the client. For example: `mysql -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -uroot --comments`.

## Syntax

Optimizer hints are case insensitive and specified within `/*+ ... */` comments following the `SELECT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` keyword in a SQL statement. Optimizer hints are not currently supported for `INSERT` statements.

 Multiple hints can be specified by separating with commas. For example, the following query uses three different hints:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX(t1, idx1), HASH_AGG(), HASH_JOIN(t1) */ count(*) FROM t t1, t t2 WHERE t1.a = t2.b;
```

How optimizer hints affect query execution plans can be observed in the output of [`EXPLAIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain.md) and [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).

An incorrect or incomplete hint will not result in a statement error. This is because hints are intended to have only a _hint_ (suggestion) semantic to query execution. Similarly, TiDB will at most return a warning if a hint is not applicable.

> **Note:**
>
> If the comments do not follow behind the specified keywords, they will be treated as common MySQL comments. The comments do not take effect, and no warning is reported.

Currently, TiDB supports two categories of hints, which are different in scope. The first category of hints takes effect in the scope of query blocks, such as [`/*+ HASH_AGG() */`](#hash_agg); the second category of hints takes effect in the whole query, such as [`/*+ MEMORY_QUOTA(1024 MB)*/`](#memory_quotan).

Each query or sub-query in a statement corresponds to a different query block, and each query block has its own name. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT * FROM (SELECT * FROM t) t1, (SELECT * FROM t) t2;
```

The above query statement has three query blocks: the outermost `SELECT` corresponds to the first query block, whose name is `sel_1`; the two `SELECT` sub-queries correspond to the second and the third query block, whose names are `sel_2` and `sel_3`, respectively. The sequence of the numbers is based on the appearance of `SELECT` from left to right. If you replace the first `SELECT` with `DELETE` or `UPDATE`, then the corresponding query block names are `del_1` or `upd_1`.

## Hints that take effect in query blocks

This category of hints can follow behind **any** `SELECT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` keywords. To control the effective scope of the hint, use the name of the query block in the hint. You can make the hint parameters clear by accurately identifying each table in the query (in case of duplicated table names or aliases). If no query block is specified in the hint, the hint takes effect in the current block by default.

For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ HASH_JOIN(@sel_1 t1@sel_1, t3) */ * FROM (SELECT t1.a, t1.b FROM t t1, t t2 WHERE t1.a = t2.a) t1, t t3 WHERE t1.b = t3.b;
```

This hint takes effect in the `sel_1` query block, and its parameters are the `t1` and `t3` tables in `sel_1` (`sel_2` also contains a `t1` table).

As described above, you can specify the name of the query block in the hint in the following ways:

- Set the query block name as the first parameter of the hint, and separate it from other parameters with a space. In addition to `QB_NAME`, all the hints listed in this section also have another optional hidden parameter `@QB_NAME`. By using this parameter, you can specify the effective scope of this hint.
- Append `@QB_NAME` to a table name in the parameter to explicitly specify which query block this table belongs to.

> **Note:**
>
> You must put the hint in or before the query block where the hint takes effect. If the hint is put after the query block, it cannot take effect.

### QB_NAME

If the query statement is a complicated statement that includes multiple nested queries, the ID and name of a certain query block might be mistakenly identified. The hint `QB_NAME` can help us in this regard.

`QB_NAME` means Query Block Name. You can specify a new name to a query block. The specified `QB_NAME` and the previous default name are both valid. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ QB_NAME(QB1) */ * FROM (SELECT * FROM t) t1, (SELECT * FROM t) t2;
```

This hint specifies the outer `SELECT` query block's name to `QB1`, which makes `QB1` and the default name `sel_1` both valid for the query block.

> **Note:**
>
> In the above example, if the hint specifies the `QB_NAME` to `sel_2` and does not specify a new `QB_NAME` for the original second `SELECT` query block, then `sel_2` becomes an invalid name for the second `SELECT` query block.

### MERGE_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])

The `MERGE_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use the sort-merge join algorithm for the given table(s). Generally, this algorithm consumes less memory but takes longer processing time. If there is a very large data volume or insufficient system memory, it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ MERGE_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * from t1，t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

> **Note:**
>
> `TIDB_SMJ` is the alias for `MERGE_JOIN` in TiDB 3.0.x and earlier versions. If you are using any of these versions, you must apply the `TIDB_SMJ(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` syntax for the hint. For the later versions of TiDB, `TIDB_SMJ` and `MERGE_JOIN` are both valid names for the hint, but `MERGE_JOIN` is recommended.

### INL_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])

The `INL_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use the index nested loop join algorithm for the given table(s). This algorithm might consume less system resources and take shorter processing time in some scenarios and might produce an opposite result in other scenarios. If the result set is less than 10,000 rows after the outer table is filtered by the `WHERE` condition, it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * from t1，t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

The parameter(s) given in `INL_JOIN()` is the candidate table for the inner table when you create the query plan. For example, `INL_JOIN(t1)` means that TiDB only considers using `t1` as the inner table to create a query plan. If the candidate table has an alias, you must use the alias as the parameter in `INL_JOIN()`; if it does not has an alias, use the table's original name as the parameter. For example, in the `select /*+ INL_JOIN(t1) */ * from t t1, t t2 where t1.a = t2.b;` query, you must use the `t` table's alias `t1` or `t2` rather than `t` as `INL_JOIN()`'s parameter.

> **Note:**
>
> `TIDB_INLJ` is the alias for `INL_JOIN` in TiDB 3.0.x and earlier versions. If you are using any of these versions, you must apply the `TIDB_INLJ(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` syntax for the hint. For the later versions of TiDB, `TIDB_INLJ` and `INL_JOIN` are both valid names for the hint, but `INL_JOIN` is recommended.

### INL_HASH_JOIN

The `INL_HASH_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name])` hint tells the optimizer to use the index nested loop hash join algorithm. The conditions for using this algorithm are the same with the conditions for using the index nested loop join algorithm. The difference between the two algorithms is that `INL_JOIN` creates a hash table on the joined inner table, but `INL_HASH_JOIN` creates a hash table on the joined outer table. `INL_HASH_JOIN` has a fixed limit on memory usage, while the memory used by `INL_JOIN` depends on the number of rows matched in the inner table.

### INL_MERGE_JOIN

The `INL_MERGE_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name])` hint tells the optimizer to use the index nested loop merge join algorithm. This hint is used in the same scenario as in that of `INL_JOIN`. Compared with `INL_JOIN` and `INL_HASH_JOIN`, it saves more memory but requires more strict usage conditions: the column sets of the inner table in join keys is the prefix of the inner table index, or the index of the inner table is the prefix of the column sets of the inner table in join keys.

### HASH_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])

The `HASH_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use the hash join algorithm for the given table(s). This algorithm allows the query to be executed concurrently with multiple threads, which achieves a higher processing speed but consumes more memory. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ HASH_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * from t1，t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

> **Note:**
>
> `TIDB_HJ` is the alias for `HASH_JOIN` in TiDB 3.0.x and earlier versions. If you are using any of these versions, you must apply the `TIDB_HJ(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` syntax for the hint. For the later versions of TiDB, `TIDB_HJ` and `HASH_JOIN` are both valid names for the hint, but `HASH_JOIN` is recommended.

### HASH_AGG()

The `HASH_AGG()` hint tells the optimizer to use the hash aggregation algorithm in all the aggregate functions in the specified query block. This algorithm allows the query to be executed concurrently with multiple threads, which achieves a higher processing speed but consumes more memory. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ HASH_AGG() */ count(*) from t1，t2 where t1.a > 10 group by t1.id;
```

### STREAM_AGG()

The `STREAM_AGG()` hint tells the optimizer to use the stream aggregation algorithm in all the aggregate functions in the specified query block. Generally, this algorithm consumes less memory but takes longer processing time. If there is a very large data volume or insufficient system memory, it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ STREAM_AGG() */ count(*) from t1，t2 where t1.a > 10 group by t1.id;
```

### USE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])

The `USE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use only the given index(es) for a specified `t1_name` table. For example, applying the following hint has the same effect as executing the `select * from t t1 use index(idx1, idx2);` statement.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX(t1, idx1, idx2) */ * FROM t1;
```

> **Note:**
>
> If you specify only the table name but not index name in this hint, the execution does not consider any index but scan the entire table.

### IGNORE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])

The `IGNORE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to ignore the given index(es) for a specified `t1_name` table. For example, applying the following hint has the same effect as executing the `select * from t t1 ignore index(idx1, idx2);` statement.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ IGNORE_INDEX(t1, idx1, idx2) */ * from t t1;
```

### AGG_TO_COP()

The `AGG_TO_COP()` hint tells the optimizer to push down the aggregate operation in the specified query block to the coprocessor. If the optimizer does not push down some aggregate function that is suitable for pushdown, then it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ AGG_TO_COP() */ sum(t1.a) from t t1;
```

### READ_FROM_STORAGE(TIFLASH[t1_name [, tl_name ...]], TIKV[t2_name [, tl_name ...]])

The `READ_FROM_STORAGE(TIFLASH[t1_name [, tl_name ...]], TIKV[t2_name [, tl_name ...]])` hint tells the optimizer to read specific table(s) from specific storage engine(s). Currently, this hint supports two storage engine parameters - `TIKV` and `TIFLASH`. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ READ_FROM_STORAGE(TIFLASH[t1], TIKV[t2]) */ t1.a from t t1, t t2 where t1.a = t2.a;
```

### USE_INDEX_MERGE(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])

The `USE_INDEX_MERGE(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to access a specific table with the index merge method. The given list of indexes are optional parameters. If you explicitly specify the list, TiDB selects indexes from the list to build index merge; if you do not give the list of indexes, TiDB selects indexes from all available indexes to build index merge. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX_MERGE(t1, idx_a, idx_b, idx_c) */ * FROM t1 WHERE t1.a > 10 OR t1.b > 10;
```

When multiple `USE_INDEX_MERGE` hints are made to the same table, the optimizer tries to select the index from the union of the index sets specified by these hints.

> **Note:**
>
> The parameters of `USE_INDEX_MERGE` refer to index names, rather than column names. The index name of the primary key is `primary`.

This hint takes effect on strict conditions, including:

- If the query can select a single index scan in addition to full table scan, the optimizer does not select index merge.
- If the query is in an explicit transaction, and if the statements before this query has already written data, the optimizer does not select index merge.

## Hints that take effect in the whole query

This category of hints can only follow behind the **first** `SELECT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` keyword, which is equivalent to modifying the value of the specified system variable when this query is executed. The priority of the hint is higher than that of existing system variables.

> **Note:**
>
> This category of hints also has an optional hidden variable `@QB_NAME`, but the hint takes effect in the whole query even if you specify the variable.

### NO_INDEX_MERGE()

The `NO_INDEX_MERGE()` hint disables the index merge feature of the optimizer.

For example, the following query will not use index merge:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ NO_INDEX_MERGE() */ * from t where t.a > 0 or t.b > 0;
```

In addition to this hint, setting the `tidb_enable_index_merge` system variable also controls whether to enable this feature.

> **Note:**
>
> `NO_INDEX_MERGE` has a higher priority over `USE_INDEX_MERGE`. When both hints are used, `USE_INDEX_MERGE` does not take effect.

### USE_TOJA(boolean_value)

The `boolean_value` parameter can be `TRUE` or `FALSE`. The `USE_TOJA(TRUE)` hint enables the optimizer to convert an `in` condition (containing a sub-query) to join and aggregation operations. Comparatively, the `USE_TOJA(FALSE)` hint disables this feature.

For example, the following query will convert `in (select t2.a from t2) subq` to corresponding join and aggregation operations:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ USE_TOJA(TRUE) */ t1.a, t1.b from t1 where t1.a in (select t2.a from t2) subq;
```

In addition to this hint, setting the `tidb_opt_insubq_to_join_and_agg` system variable also controls whether to enable this feature.

### MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(N)

The `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(N)` hint places a limit `N` (a timeout value in milliseconds) on how long a statement is permitted to execute before the server terminates it. In the following hint, `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(1000)` means that the timeout is 1000 milliseconds (that is, 1 second):

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(1000) */ * from t1 inner join t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

In addition to this hint, the `global.max_execution_time` system variable can also limit the execution time of a statement.

### MEMORY_QUOTA(N)

The `MEMORY_QUOTA(N)` hint places a limit `N` (a threshold value in MB or GB) on how much memory a statement is permitted to use. When a statement's memory usage exceeds this limit, TiDB produces a log message based on the statement's over-limit behavior or just terminates it.

In the following hint, `MEMORY_QUOTA(1024 MB)` means that the memory usage is limited to 1024 MB:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ MEMORY_QUOTA(1024 MB) */ * from t;
```

In addition to this hint, the `tidb_mem_quota_query` system variable can also limit the memory usage of a statement.

### READ_CONSISTENT_REPLICA()

The `READ_CONSISTENT_REPLICA()` hint enables the feature of reading consistent data from the TiKV follower node. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ READ_CONSISTENT_REPLICA() */ * from t;
```

In addition to this hint, setting the `tidb_replica_read` environment variable to `'follower'` or `'leader'` also controls whether to enable this feature.

### IGNORE_PLAN_CACHE()

`IGNORE_PLAN_CACHE()` reminds the optimizer not to use the Plan Cache when handling the current `prepare` statement.

This hint is used to temporarily disable the Plan Cache for a certain type of queries when [prepare-plan-cache](/tidb-configuration-file.md#prepared-plan-cache) is enabled.

In the following example, the Plan Cache is forcibly disabled when executing the `prepare` statement.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
prepare stmt from 'select  /*+ IGNORE_PLAN_CACHE() */ * from t where t.id = ?';
```

Commit message:

optimizer-hints: add docs for `nth_plan()` hint

optimizer-hints.md, after:

---
title: Optimizer Hints
summary: Use Optimizer Hints to influence query execution plans
aliases: ['/docs/dev/optimizer-hints/','/docs/dev/reference/performance/optimizer-hints/']
---

# Optimizer Hints

TiDB supports optimizer hints, which are based on the comment-like syntax introduced in MySQL 5.7. For example, one of the common syntaxes is `/*+ HINT_NAME([t1_name [, t2_name] ...]) */`. Use of optimizer hints is recommended in cases where the TiDB optimizer selects a less optimal query plan.

> **Note:**
>
> MySQL command-line clients earlier than 5.7.7 strip optimizer hints by default. If you want to use the `Hint` syntax in these earlier versions, add the `--comments` option when starting the client. For example: `mysql -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4000 -uroot --comments`.

## Syntax

Optimizer hints are case insensitive and specified within `/*+ ... */` comments following the `SELECT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` keyword in a SQL statement. Optimizer hints are not currently supported for `INSERT` statements.

 Multiple hints can be specified by separating with commas. For example, the following query uses three different hints:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX(t1, idx1), HASH_AGG(), HASH_JOIN(t1) */ count(*) FROM t t1, t t2 WHERE t1.a = t2.b;
```

How optimizer hints affect query execution plans can be observed in the output of [`EXPLAIN`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain.md) and [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).

An incorrect or incomplete hint will not result in a statement error. This is because hints are intended to have only a _hint_ (suggestion) semantic to query execution. Similarly, TiDB will at most return a warning if a hint is not applicable.

> **Note:**
>
> If the comments do not follow behind the specified keywords, they will be treated as common MySQL comments. The comments do not take effect, and no warning is reported.

Currently, TiDB supports two categories of hints, which are different in scope. The first category of hints takes effect in the scope of query blocks, such as [`/*+ HASH_AGG() */`](#hash_agg); the second category of hints takes effect in the whole query, such as [`/*+ MEMORY_QUOTA(1024 MB)*/`](#memory_quotan).

Each query or sub-query in a statement corresponds to a different query block, and each query block has its own name. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT * FROM (SELECT * FROM t) t1, (SELECT * FROM t) t2;
```

The above query statement has three query blocks: the outermost `SELECT` corresponds to the first query block, whose name is `sel_1`; the two `SELECT` sub-queries correspond to the second and the third query block, whose names are `sel_2` and `sel_3`, respectively. The sequence of the numbers is based on the appearance of `SELECT` from left to right. If you replace the first `SELECT` with `DELETE` or `UPDATE`, then the corresponding query block names are `del_1` or `upd_1`.

## Hints that take effect in query blocks

This category of hints can follow behind **any** `SELECT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` keywords. To control the effective scope of the hint, use the name of the query block in the hint. You can make the hint parameters clear by accurately identifying each table in the query (in case of duplicated table names or aliases). If no query block is specified in the hint, the hint takes effect in the current block by default.

For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ HASH_JOIN(@sel_1 t1@sel_1, t3) */ * FROM (SELECT t1.a, t1.b FROM t t1, t t2 WHERE t1.a = t2.a) t1, t t3 WHERE t1.b = t3.b;
```

This hint takes effect in the `sel_1` query block, and its parameters are the `t1` and `t3` tables in `sel_1` (`sel_2` also contains a `t1` table).

As described above, you can specify the name of the query block in the hint in the following ways:

- Set the query block name as the first parameter of the hint, and separate it from other parameters with a space. In addition to `QB_NAME`, all the hints listed in this section also have another optional hidden parameter `@QB_NAME`. By using this parameter, you can specify the effective scope of this hint.
- Append `@QB_NAME` to a table name in the parameter to explicitly specify which query block this table belongs to.

> **Note:**
>
> You must put the hint in or before the query block where the hint takes effect. If the hint is put after the query block, it cannot take effect.

### QB_NAME

If the query statement is a complicated statement that includes multiple nested queries, the ID and name of a certain query block might be mistakenly identified. The hint `QB_NAME` can help us in this regard.

`QB_NAME` means Query Block Name. You can specify a new name to a query block. The specified `QB_NAME` and the previous default name are both valid. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ QB_NAME(QB1) */ * FROM (SELECT * FROM t) t1, (SELECT * FROM t) t2;
```

This hint specifies the outer `SELECT` query block's name to `QB1`, which makes `QB1` and the default name `sel_1` both valid for the query block.

> **Note:**
>
> In the above example, if the hint specifies the `QB_NAME` to `sel_2` and does not specify a new `QB_NAME` for the original second `SELECT` query block, then `sel_2` becomes an invalid name for the second `SELECT` query block.

### MERGE_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])

The `MERGE_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use the sort-merge join algorithm for the given table(s). Generally, this algorithm consumes less memory but takes longer processing time. If there is a very large data volume or insufficient system memory, it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ MERGE_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * from t1，t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

> **Note:**
>
> `TIDB_SMJ` is the alias for `MERGE_JOIN` in TiDB 3.0.x and earlier versions. If you are using any of these versions, you must apply the `TIDB_SMJ(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` syntax for the hint. For the later versions of TiDB, `TIDB_SMJ` and `MERGE_JOIN` are both valid names for the hint, but `MERGE_JOIN` is recommended.

### INL_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])

The `INL_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use the index nested loop join algorithm for the given table(s). This algorithm might consume less system resources and take shorter processing time in some scenarios and might produce an opposite result in other scenarios. If the result set is less than 10,000 rows after the outer table is filtered by the `WHERE` condition, it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ INL_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * from t1，t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

The parameter(s) given in `INL_JOIN()` is the candidate table for the inner table when you create the query plan. For example, `INL_JOIN(t1)` means that TiDB only considers using `t1` as the inner table to create a query plan. If the candidate table has an alias, you must use the alias as the parameter in `INL_JOIN()`; if it does not has an alias, use the table's original name as the parameter. For example, in the `select /*+ INL_JOIN(t1) */ * from t t1, t t2 where t1.a = t2.b;` query, you must use the `t` table's alias `t1` or `t2` rather than `t` as `INL_JOIN()`'s parameter.

> **Note:**
>
> `TIDB_INLJ` is the alias for `INL_JOIN` in TiDB 3.0.x and earlier versions. If you are using any of these versions, you must apply the `TIDB_INLJ(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` syntax for the hint. For the later versions of TiDB, `TIDB_INLJ` and `INL_JOIN` are both valid names for the hint, but `INL_JOIN` is recommended.

### INL_HASH_JOIN

The `INL_HASH_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name])` hint tells the optimizer to use the index nested loop hash join algorithm. The conditions for using this algorithm are the same with the conditions for using the index nested loop join algorithm. The difference between the two algorithms is that `INL_JOIN` creates a hash table on the joined inner table, but `INL_HASH_JOIN` creates a hash table on the joined outer table. `INL_HASH_JOIN` has a fixed limit on memory usage, while the memory used by `INL_JOIN` depends on the number of rows matched in the inner table.

### INL_MERGE_JOIN

The `INL_MERGE_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name])` hint tells the optimizer to use the index nested loop merge join algorithm. This hint is used in the same scenario as in that of `INL_JOIN`. Compared with `INL_JOIN` and `INL_HASH_JOIN`, it saves more memory but requires more strict usage conditions: the column sets of the inner table in join keys is the prefix of the inner table index, or the index of the inner table is the prefix of the column sets of the inner table in join keys.

### HASH_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])

The `HASH_JOIN(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use the hash join algorithm for the given table(s). This algorithm allows the query to be executed concurrently with multiple threads, which achieves a higher processing speed but consumes more memory. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ HASH_JOIN(t1, t2) */ * from t1，t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

> **Note:**
>
> `TIDB_HJ` is the alias for `HASH_JOIN` in TiDB 3.0.x and earlier versions. If you are using any of these versions, you must apply the `TIDB_HJ(t1_name [, tl_name ...])` syntax for the hint. For the later versions of TiDB, `TIDB_HJ` and `HASH_JOIN` are both valid names for the hint, but `HASH_JOIN` is recommended.

### HASH_AGG()

The `HASH_AGG()` hint tells the optimizer to use the hash aggregation algorithm in all the aggregate functions in the specified query block. This algorithm allows the query to be executed concurrently with multiple threads, which achieves a higher processing speed but consumes more memory. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ HASH_AGG() */ count(*) from t1，t2 where t1.a > 10 group by t1.id;
```

### STREAM_AGG()

The `STREAM_AGG()` hint tells the optimizer to use the stream aggregation algorithm in all the aggregate functions in the specified query block. Generally, this algorithm consumes less memory but takes longer processing time. If there is a very large data volume or insufficient system memory, it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ STREAM_AGG() */ count(*) from t1，t2 where t1.a > 10 group by t1.id;
```

### USE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])

The `USE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to use only the given index(es) for a specified `t1_name` table. For example, applying the following hint has the same effect as executing the `select * from t t1 use index(idx1, idx2);` statement.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX(t1, idx1, idx2) */ * FROM t1;
```

> **Note:**
>
> If you specify only the table name but not index name in this hint, the execution does not consider any index but scan the entire table.

### IGNORE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])

The `IGNORE_INDEX(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to ignore the given index(es) for a specified `t1_name` table. For example, applying the following hint has the same effect as executing the `select * from t t1 ignore index(idx1, idx2);` statement.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ IGNORE_INDEX(t1, idx1, idx2) */ * from t t1;
```

### AGG_TO_COP()

The `AGG_TO_COP()` hint tells the optimizer to push down the aggregate operation in the specified query block to the coprocessor. If the optimizer does not push down some aggregate function that is suitable for pushdown, then it is recommended to use this hint. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ AGG_TO_COP() */ sum(t1.a) from t t1;
```

### READ_FROM_STORAGE(TIFLASH[t1_name [, tl_name ...]], TIKV[t2_name [, tl_name ...]])

The `READ_FROM_STORAGE(TIFLASH[t1_name [, tl_name ...]], TIKV[t2_name [, tl_name ...]])` hint tells the optimizer to read specific table(s) from specific storage engine(s). Currently, this hint supports two storage engine parameters - `TIKV` and `TIFLASH`. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ READ_FROM_STORAGE(TIFLASH[t1], TIKV[t2]) */ t1.a from t t1, t t2 where t1.a = t2.a;
```

### USE_INDEX_MERGE(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])

The `USE_INDEX_MERGE(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])` hint tells the optimizer to access a specific table with the index merge method. The given list of indexes are optional parameters. If you explicitly specify the list, TiDB selects indexes from the list to build index merge; if you do not give the list of indexes, TiDB selects indexes from all available indexes to build index merge. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ USE_INDEX_MERGE(t1, idx_a, idx_b, idx_c) */ * FROM t1 WHERE t1.a > 10 OR t1.b > 10;
```

When multiple `USE_INDEX_MERGE` hints are made to the same table, the optimizer tries to select the index from the union of the index sets specified by these hints.

> **Note:**
>
> The parameters of `USE_INDEX_MERGE` refer to index names, rather than column names. The index name of the primary key is `primary`.

This hint takes effect on strict conditions, including:

- If the query can select a single index scan in addition to full table scan, the optimizer does not select index merge.
- If the query is in an explicit transaction, and if the statements before this query has already written data, the optimizer does not select index merge.

## Hints that take effect in the whole query

This category of hints can only follow behind the **first** `SELECT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` keyword, which is equivalent to modifying the value of the specified system variable when this query is executed. The priority of the hint is higher than that of existing system variables.

> **Note:**
>
> This category of hints also has an optional hidden variable `@QB_NAME`, but the hint takes effect in the whole query even if you specify the variable.

### NO_INDEX_MERGE()

The `NO_INDEX_MERGE()` hint disables the index merge feature of the optimizer.

For example, the following query will not use index merge:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ NO_INDEX_MERGE() */ * from t where t.a > 0 or t.b > 0;
```

In addition to this hint, setting the `tidb_enable_index_merge` system variable also controls whether to enable this feature.

> **Note:**
>
> `NO_INDEX_MERGE` has a higher priority over `USE_INDEX_MERGE`. When both hints are used, `USE_INDEX_MERGE` does not take effect.

### USE_TOJA(boolean_value)

The `boolean_value` parameter can be `TRUE` or `FALSE`. The `USE_TOJA(TRUE)` hint enables the optimizer to convert an `in` condition (containing a sub-query) to join and aggregation operations. Comparatively, the `USE_TOJA(FALSE)` hint disables this feature.

For example, the following query will convert `in (select t2.a from t2) subq` to corresponding join and aggregation operations:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ USE_TOJA(TRUE) */ t1.a, t1.b from t1 where t1.a in (select t2.a from t2) subq;
```

In addition to this hint, setting the `tidb_opt_insubq_to_join_and_agg` system variable also controls whether to enable this feature.

### MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(N)

The `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(N)` hint places a limit `N` (a timeout value in milliseconds) on how long a statement is permitted to execute before the server terminates it. In the following hint, `MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(1000)` means that the timeout is 1000 milliseconds (that is, 1 second):

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ MAX_EXECUTION_TIME(1000) */ * from t1 inner join t2 where t1.id = t2.id;
```

In addition to this hint, the `global.max_execution_time` system variable can also limit the execution time of a statement.

### MEMORY_QUOTA(N)

The `MEMORY_QUOTA(N)` hint places a limit `N` (a threshold value in MB or GB) on how much memory a statement is permitted to use. When a statement's memory usage exceeds this limit, TiDB produces a log message based on the statement's over-limit behavior or just terminates it.

In the following hint, `MEMORY_QUOTA(1024 MB)` means that the memory usage is limited to 1024 MB:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ MEMORY_QUOTA(1024 MB) */ * from t;
```

In addition to this hint, the `tidb_mem_quota_query` system variable can also limit the memory usage of a statement.

### READ_CONSISTENT_REPLICA()

The `READ_CONSISTENT_REPLICA()` hint enables the feature of reading consistent data from the TiKV follower node. For example:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select /*+ READ_CONSISTENT_REPLICA() */ * from t;
```

In addition to this hint, setting the `tidb_replica_read` environment variable to `'follower'` or `'leader'` also controls whether to enable this feature.

### IGNORE_PLAN_CACHE()

The `IGNORE_PLAN_CACHE()` hint reminds the optimizer not to use the Plan Cache when handling the current `prepare` statement.

This hint is used to temporarily disable the Plan Cache for a certain type of queries when [prepare-plan-cache](/tidb-configuration-file.md#prepared-plan-cache) is enabled.

In the following example, the Plan Cache is forcibly disabled when executing the `prepare` statement.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
prepare stmt from 'select  /*+ IGNORE_PLAN_CACHE() */ * from t where t.id = ?';
```

### NTH_PLAN(N)

The `NTH_PLAN(N)` hint reminds the optimizer to select the `N`th physical plan found in the physical optimization stage. `N` must be a positive integer.

If the specified `N` exceeds the search range of the physical optimization stage, TiDB will return a warning and select the optimal physical plan based on the same strategy as when this hint does not exist.

This hint does not take effect when the cascades planner is enabled.

In the following example, the optimizer is forcibly selected the third physical plan found in the physical optimization stage:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT /*+ NTH_PLAN(3) */ count(*) from t where a > 5;
```

> **Note:**
>
> `NTH_PLAN(N)` is mainly used for testing, and its compatibility is not guaranteed in later versions, so proceed **with caution**.
