README.md, before:

# TiDB Documentation

Welcome to TiDB documentation!

This repository stores all the source files of [TiDB Docs at the PingCAP website](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v4.0), while the [pingcap/docs-cn](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn) repository stores all the source files of [TiDB Documentation in Chinese](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v4.0).

If you find documentation issues, feel free to [create an Issue](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/issues/new/choose) to let us know or directly [create a Pull Request](/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-contribute) to help fix or update it.

## Documentation versions

Currently, we maintain the following versions of TiDB documentation in different branches:

| Branch name | TiDB docs version |
| :---------|:----------|
| [`master`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/master) | The latest development version |
| [`release-4.0`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-4.0) | 4.0 stable version |
| [`release-3.1`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-3.1) | 3.1 stable version |
| [`release-3.0`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-3.0) | 3.0 stable version |
| [`release-2.1`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-2.1) | 2.1 stable version |

## Contributing

[<img src="media/contribution-map.png" alt="contribution-map" width="180"></img>](https://github.com/pingcap/community/tree/master/special-interest-groups/sig-docs)

See [TiDB Documentation Contributing Guide](/CONTRIBUTING.md) to become a contributor! 🤓

Commit message:

readme: add google translate link of French and Japanese

README.md, after:

# TiDB Documentation

Welcome to TiDB documentation!

This repository stores all the source files of [TiDB Docs at the PingCAP website](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v4.0), while the [pingcap/docs-cn](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn) repository stores all the source files of [TiDB Documentation in Chinese](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v4.0).

If you find documentation issues, feel free to [create an Issue](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/issues/new/choose) to let us know or directly [create a Pull Request](/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-contribute) to help fix or update it.

Currently, the official documentation supports two languages:

- `en`: [documentation in English](TOC.md)
- `zh`: [documentation in Chinese](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/TOC.md)

You can use Google Translate to view the documentation in different languages. For example:

- `fr`: [documentation in French](http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=fr&u=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpingcap%2Fdocs%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2FTOC.md)
- `ja`: [documentation in Japanese](http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=en&tl=ja&u=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fpingcap%2Fdocs%2Fblob%2Fmaster%2FTOC.md)

## Documentation versions

Currently, we maintain the following versions of TiDB documentation in different branches:

| Branch name | TiDB docs version |
| :---------|:----------|
| [`master`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/master) | The latest development version |
| [`release-4.0`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-4.0) | 4.0 stable version |
| [`release-3.1`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-3.1) | 3.1 stable version |
| [`release-3.0`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-3.0) | 3.0 stable version |
| [`release-2.1`](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/tree/release-2.1) | 2.1 stable version |

## Contributing

[<img src="media/contribution-map.png" alt="contribution-map" width="180"></img>](https://github.com/pingcap/community/tree/master/special-interest-groups/sig-docs)

See [TiDB Documentation Contributing Guide](/CONTRIBUTING.md) to become a contributor! 🤓
