telemetry.md, before:

---
title: Telemetry
summary: Learn the telemetry feature, how to disable the feature and view its status.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/telemetry/']
---

# Telemetry

By default, TiDB, TiUP and TiDB Dashboard collect usage information and share the information with PingCAP to help understand how to improve the product. For example, this usage information helps prioritize new features.

## What is shared?

The following sections describe the shared usage information in detail for each component. The usage details that get shared might change over time. These changes (if any) will be announced in [release notes](/releases/release-notes.md).

> **Note:**
>
> In **ALL** cases, user data stored in the TiDB cluster will **NOT** be shared. You can also refer to [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy).

### TiDB

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiDB, the TiDB cluster collects usage details on a 6-hour basis. These usage details include but are not limited to:

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware (CPU, memory, disk), TiDB components versions, OS name.
- The status of query requests in the system, such as the number of query requests and the duration.
- Component usage, for example, whether the Async Commit feature is in use or not.

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, execute the following SQL statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

### TiDB Dashboard

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled for TiDB Dashboard, usage information on the TiDB Dashboard web UI will be shared, including (but not limited to):

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- User operation information, such as the name of the TiDB Dashboard web page accessed by the user.
- Browser and OS information, such as browser name, OS name, and screen resolution.

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, use the [Network Activity Inspector of Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network) or the [Network Monitor of Firefox Developer Tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Network_Monitor).

### TiUP

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiUP, user operations with TiUP will be shared, including (but not limited to):

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- Execution status of TiUP commands, such as whether the execution is successful and the execution duration.
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware, TiDB components versions, and deployment configuration names that have been modified.

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, set the `TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable` environment variable when executing the TiUP command. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable tiup cluster list
```

## Disable telemetry

### Disable TiDB telemetry at deployment

When deploying TiDB clusters, configure [`enable-telemetry = false`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry-new-in-v402) to disable the TiDB telemetry collection on all TiDB instances. You can also use this setting to disable telemetry in an existing TiDB cluster, which does not take effect until you restart the cluster.

Detailed steps to disable telemetry in different deployment tools are listed below.

<details>
  <summary>Binary deployment</summary>

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

Specify the `--config=tidb_config.toml` command-line parameter when starting TiDB for the configuration file above to take effect.

See [TiDB Configuration Options](/command-line-flags-for-tidb-configuration.md#--config) and [TiDB Configuration File](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry-new-in-v402) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Playground</summary>

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

When starting TiUP Playground, specify the `--db.config tidb_config.toml` command-line parameter for the configuration file above to take effect. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup playground --db.config tidb_config.toml
```

See [Quickly Deploy a Local TiDB Cluster](/tiup/tiup-playground.md) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Cluster</summary>

Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
server_configs:
  tidb:
    enable-telemetry: false
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment in Kubernetes via TiDB Operator</summary>

Configure `spec.tidb.config.enable-telemetry: false` in `tidb-cluster.yaml` or TidbCluster Custom Resource.

See [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/deploy-tidb-operator) for details.

> **Note:**
>
> This configuration item requires TiDB Operator v1.1.3 or later to take effect.

</details>

### Disable TiDB telemetry for deployed TiDB clusters

In existing TiDB clusters, you can also modify the system variable [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_telemetry-new-in-v402) to dynamically disable the TiDB telemetry collection:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_telemetry = 0;
```

> **Note:**
>
> When you disable telemetry, the configuration file has a higher priority over system variable. That is, after telemetry collection is disabled by the configuration file, the value of the system variable will be ignored.

### Disable TiDB Dashboard telemetry

Configure [`dashboard.enable-telemetry = false`](/pd-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) to disable the TiDB Dashboard telemetry collection on all PD instances. You need to restart the running clusters for the configuration to take effect.

Detailed steps to disable telemetry for different deployment tools are listed below.

<details>
  <summary>Binary deployment</summary>

Create a configuration file `pd_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[dashboard]
enable-telemetry = false
```

Specify the `--config=pd_config.toml` command-line parameter when starting PD to take effect.

See [PD Configuration Flags](/command-line-flags-for-pd-configuration.md#--config) and [PD Configuration File](/pd-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Playground</summary>

Create a configuration file `pd_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[dashboard]
enable-telemetry = false
```

When starting TiUP Playground, specify the `--pd.config pd_config.toml` command-line parameter to take effect, for example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup playground --pd.config pd_config.toml
```

See [Quickly Deploy a Local TiDB Cluster](/tiup/tiup-playground.md) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Cluster</summary>

Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
server_configs:
  pd:
    dashboard.enable-telemetry: false
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment in Kubernetes via TiDB Operator</summary>

Configure `spec.pd.config.dashboard.enable-telemetry: false` in `tidb-cluster.yaml` or TidbCluster Custom Resource.

See [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/deploy-tidb-operator) for details.

> **Note:**
>
> This configuration item requires TiDB Operator v1.1.3 or later to take effect.

</details>

### Disable TiUP telemetry

To disable the TiUP telemetry collection, execute the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry disable
```

## Check telemetry status

For TiDB telemetry, execute the following SQL statement to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

If the `DATA_PREVIEW` column in the execution result is empty, TiDB telemetry is disabled. If not, TiDB telemetry is enabled. You can also check when the usage information was shared previously according to the `LAST_STATUS` column and whether the sharing was successful or not.

For TiUP telemetry, execute the following command to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry status
```

## Compliance

To meet compliance requirements in different countries or regions, the usage information is sent to servers located in different countries according to the IP address of the sender machine:

- For IP addresses from the Chinese mainland, usage information is sent to and stored on cloud servers in the Chinese mainland.
- For IP addresses from outside of the Chinese mainland, usage information is sent to and stored on cloud servers in the US.

See [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy) for details.

Commit message:

add description about functions usage telemetry

telemetry.md, after:

---
title: Telemetry
summary: Learn the telemetry feature, how to disable the feature and view its status.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/telemetry/']
---

# Telemetry

By default, TiDB, TiUP and TiDB Dashboard collect usage information and share the information with PingCAP to help understand how to improve the product. For example, this usage information helps prioritize new features.

## What is shared?

The following sections describe the shared usage information in detail for each component. The usage details that get shared might change over time. These changes (if any) will be announced in [release notes](/releases/release-notes.md).

> **Note:**
>
> In **ALL** cases, user data stored in the TiDB cluster will **NOT** be shared. You can also refer to [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy).

### TiDB

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiDB, the TiDB cluster collects usage details on a 6-hour basis. These usage details include but are not limited to:

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware (CPU, memory, disk), TiDB components versions, OS name.
- The status of query requests in the system, such as the number of query requests and the duration.
- Component usage, for example, whether the Async Commit feature is in use or not.
- Builtin functions usage information, including the count of functions used in SQL queries.

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, execute the following SQL statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

### TiDB Dashboard

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled for TiDB Dashboard, usage information on the TiDB Dashboard web UI will be shared, including (but not limited to):

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- User operation information, such as the name of the TiDB Dashboard web page accessed by the user.
- Browser and OS information, such as browser name, OS name, and screen resolution.

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, use the [Network Activity Inspector of Chrome DevTools](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/network) or the [Network Monitor of Firefox Developer Tools](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Network_Monitor).

### TiUP

When the telemetry collection feature is enabled in TiUP, user operations with TiUP will be shared, including (but not limited to):

- A randomly generated telemetry ID.
- Execution status of TiUP commands, such as whether the execution is successful and the execution duration.
- Deployment characteristics, such as the size of hardware, TiDB components versions, and deployment configuration names that have been modified.

To view the full content of the usage information shared to PingCAP, set the `TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable` environment variable when executing the TiUP command. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
TIUP_CLUSTER_DEBUG=enable tiup cluster list
```

## Disable telemetry

### Disable TiDB telemetry at deployment

When deploying TiDB clusters, configure [`enable-telemetry = false`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry-new-in-v402) to disable the TiDB telemetry collection on all TiDB instances. You can also use this setting to disable telemetry in an existing TiDB cluster, which does not take effect until you restart the cluster.

Detailed steps to disable telemetry in different deployment tools are listed below.

<details>
  <summary>Binary deployment</summary>

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

Specify the `--config=tidb_config.toml` command-line parameter when starting TiDB for the configuration file above to take effect.

See [TiDB Configuration Options](/command-line-flags-for-tidb-configuration.md#--config) and [TiDB Configuration File](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry-new-in-v402) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Playground</summary>

Create a configuration file `tidb_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
enable-telemetry = false
```

When starting TiUP Playground, specify the `--db.config tidb_config.toml` command-line parameter for the configuration file above to take effect. For example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup playground --db.config tidb_config.toml
```

See [Quickly Deploy a Local TiDB Cluster](/tiup/tiup-playground.md) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Cluster</summary>

Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
server_configs:
  tidb:
    enable-telemetry: false
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment in Kubernetes via TiDB Operator</summary>

Configure `spec.tidb.config.enable-telemetry: false` in `tidb-cluster.yaml` or TidbCluster Custom Resource.

See [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/deploy-tidb-operator) for details.

> **Note:**
>
> This configuration item requires TiDB Operator v1.1.3 or later to take effect.

</details>

### Disable TiDB telemetry for deployed TiDB clusters

In existing TiDB clusters, you can also modify the system variable [`tidb_enable_telemetry`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_telemetry-new-in-v402) to dynamically disable the TiDB telemetry collection:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_telemetry = 0;
```

> **Note:**
>
> When you disable telemetry, the configuration file has a higher priority over system variable. That is, after telemetry collection is disabled by the configuration file, the value of the system variable will be ignored.

### Disable TiDB Dashboard telemetry

Configure [`dashboard.enable-telemetry = false`](/pd-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) to disable the TiDB Dashboard telemetry collection on all PD instances. You need to restart the running clusters for the configuration to take effect.

Detailed steps to disable telemetry for different deployment tools are listed below.

<details>
  <summary>Binary deployment</summary>

Create a configuration file `pd_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[dashboard]
enable-telemetry = false
```

Specify the `--config=pd_config.toml` command-line parameter when starting PD to take effect.

See [PD Configuration Flags](/command-line-flags-for-pd-configuration.md#--config) and [PD Configuration File](/pd-configuration-file.md#enable-telemetry) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Playground</summary>

Create a configuration file `pd_config.toml` with the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```toml
[dashboard]
enable-telemetry = false
```

When starting TiUP Playground, specify the `--pd.config pd_config.toml` command-line parameter to take effect, for example:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup playground --pd.config pd_config.toml
```

See [Quickly Deploy a Local TiDB Cluster](/tiup/tiup-playground.md) for details.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment using TiUP Cluster</summary>

Modify the deployment topology file `topology.yaml` to add the following content:

{{< copyable "" >}}

```yaml
server_configs:
  pd:
    dashboard.enable-telemetry: false
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Deployment in Kubernetes via TiDB Operator</summary>

Configure `spec.pd.config.dashboard.enable-telemetry: false` in `tidb-cluster.yaml` or TidbCluster Custom Resource.

See [Deploy TiDB Operator in Kubernetes](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable/deploy-tidb-operator) for details.

> **Note:**
>
> This configuration item requires TiDB Operator v1.1.3 or later to take effect.

</details>

### Disable TiUP telemetry

To disable the TiUP telemetry collection, execute the following command:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry disable
```

## Check telemetry status

For TiDB telemetry, execute the following SQL statement to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW TELEMETRY;
```

If the `DATA_PREVIEW` column in the execution result is empty, TiDB telemetry is disabled. If not, TiDB telemetry is enabled. You can also check when the usage information was shared previously according to the `LAST_STATUS` column and whether the sharing was successful or not.

For TiUP telemetry, execute the following command to check the telemetry status:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
tiup telemetry status
```

## Compliance

To meet compliance requirements in different countries or regions, the usage information is sent to servers located in different countries according to the IP address of the sender machine:

- For IP addresses from the Chinese mainland, usage information is sent to and stored on cloud servers in the Chinese mainland.
- For IP addresses from outside of the Chinese mainland, usage information is sent to and stored on cloud servers in the US.

See [PingCAP Privacy Policy](https://pingcap.com/privacy-policy) for details.
