---
title: Glossary
summary: Glossaries about TiDB.
category: glossary
---

# Glossary

## L

### Leader/Follower/Learner

Leader/Follower/Learner each corresponds to a role in a Raft group of [Peers](#regionpeerraft-group). The Leader services all client requests and replicated data to the Followers. If the group Leader fails, one of the Followers will be elected as the new Leader. Learners are non-voting Followers that only replicates raft logs, and currently exists briefly in the process of replica addition.

## O

### Operator

An Operator is a collection of actions that applies to a Region for scheduling purposes. An Operator perform tasks such as "migrate Region 2 Leader to Store 5", "migrate a replica of Region 2 to Store 1, 4, 5".

An Operator can be computed and generated by a Scheduler, or created by an external API.

### Operator Step

An Operator Step is a step in the execution of an Operator. An Operator normally contains multiple Operator steps.

Currently, available Steps generated by PD include:

- `TransferLeader`: migrates a Region Leader to a specified Peer
- `AddPeer`: adds Followers to a specified Store
- `RemovePeer`: removes a Region Peer
- `AddLearner`: adds a Region Learner to a specified Store
- `PromoteLearner`: promotes a specified Learner to a voting member
- `SplitRegion`: splits a Region in two

## P

### `Pending`/`Down`

`Pending` and `Down` are two special states of a Peer. `Pending` indicates that the Raft log of Followers or Learners is vastly different from that of Leader, and Followers in `Pending` cannot be elected as Leader. `Down` refers to a state that a Peer ceases to respond to the corresponding Leader for a long time, which usually means the corresponding node is down or isolated from the network.

## R

### Region/Peer/Raft Group

Region is the minimal piece of data storage in TiKV, each representing a range of data (96 MiB by default). Each Region has multiple replicas in different Stores (3 replicas by default). Each replica is referred to as a Peer. Multiple Peers of the same Region replicate data via the Raft protocol, so Peers are also members of a raft instance. TiKV uses multiple Raft group (Multi-Raft) to manage data. That is, for each Region, there is a corresponding, isolated Raft Group.

### Region Split

Regions in the TiKV cluster are gradually split and generated as data write continues. The process of splitting is called Region Split.

The mechanism of Region Split is to build an initial Region to cover the entire key space in cluster initialization, and then generate a new Region through Split every time the Region data reaches a certain amount.

## S

### Scheduler

Schedulers are components in PD that generate scheduling tasks. Each scheduler in PD runs independently and serves different purposes. The commonly used schedulers are:

- `balance-leader-scheduler`: maintains Leader balance of different nodes
- `balance-region-scheduler`: maintains Peer balance of different nodes
- `hot-region-scheduler`: maintains hot Region balance of different nodes
- `evict-leader-{store-id}`: evicts all Leaders of a node (often used for rolling upgrades)

### Store

A Store in PD refers to the storage node in the cluster (an instance of `tikv-server`). Each Store has a corresponding TiKV instance. This means if multiple TiKV instances are deployed on the same host or even on the same disk, these instances still correspond to different Stores.
