tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster-serverless.md, before:

---
title: Connect to Your TiDB Serverless Cluster
summary: Learn how to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via different methods.
---

# Connect to Your TiDB Serverless Cluster

This document describes how to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster.

> **Tip:**
>
> To learn how to connect to a TiDB Dedicated cluster, see [Connect to Your TiDB Dedicated Cluster](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md).

## Connection methods

After your TiDB Serverless cluster is created on TiDB Cloud, you can connect to it via one of the following methods:

- Direct connections

  TiDB Serverless is MySQL-compatible. You can connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster using any tool that supports MySQL connections, such as [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html).

- [Data Service (beta)](/tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md)

  TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to access TiDB Serverless data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint.

- [Serverless Driver (beta)](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver.md)

  TiDB Serverless provides Serverless driver, a javascript driver that allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environments over HTTP.

- [Chat2Query (beta)](/tidb-cloud/explore-data-with-chat2query.md)

  TiDB Cloud is powered by artificial intelligence (AI). You can use Chat2Query (beta), an AI-powered SQL editor in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), to maximize your data value.

  In Chat2Query, you can either simply type `--` followed by your instructions to let AI generate SQL queries automatically or write SQL queries manually, and then run SQL queries against databases without a terminal. You can find the query results in tables intuitively and check the query logs easily.

Direct connections are recommended for most scenarios. Data Service provides restful HTTP API for you to access your data. Serverless driver is useful when you in edge environments such as Vercel Edge Function and Cloudflare Workers. Chat2Query is a convenient way to explore your data in the TiDB Cloud console.

## Network

There are two network connection types for TiDB Serverless:

- [Private endpoint](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections-serverless.md) (recommended)

  Private endpoint connection provides a private endpoint to allow SQL clients in your VPC to securely access services over AWS PrivateLink, which provides highly secure and one-way access to database services with simplified network management.

- [Public endpoint](/tidb-cloud/connect-via-standard-connection-serverless.md)

  The standard connection exposes a public endpoint with traffic filters, so you can connect to your TiDB cluster via a SQL client from your laptop.

  TiDB Serverless supports [TLS connections](/tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters.md), which ensures the security of data transmission from your applications to TiDB clusters.

The following table shows the network you can use in different connection methods:

| Connection method  | Network                     | Description                                                                                                             |
|--------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Direct connections | Public or private endpoint | Direct connections can be made via both public and private endpoints.                                                   |
| Data Service (beta)       | /                           | Accessing TiDB Serverless via Data Service (beta) is through API Key so there is no need to specify the network. |
| Serverless Driver (beta)  | Public endpoint             | Serverless Driver only supports connections via public endpoint.                                                        |
| Chat2Query (beta)         | /                           | Chat2Query does not need to specify the network.                                                                        |

## What's next

After you have successfully connected to your TiDB cluster, you can [explore SQL statements with TiDB](/basic-sql-operations.md).

Commit message:

alter driver name,add choose connection method

tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster-serverless.md, after:

---
title: Connect to Your TiDB Serverless Cluster
summary: Learn how to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster via different methods.
---

# Connect to Your TiDB Serverless Cluster

This document describes how to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster.

> **Tip:**
>
> To learn how to connect to a TiDB Dedicated cluster, see [Connect to Your TiDB Dedicated Cluster](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md).

## Connection methods

After your TiDB Serverless cluster is created on TiDB Cloud, you can connect to it via one of the following methods:

- Direct connections

  TiDB Serverless is MySQL-compatible. You can connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster using any tool that supports MySQL connections, such as [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html).

- [Data Service (beta)](/tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md)

  TiDB Serverless provides a Data Service feature that enables you to access TiDB Serverless data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint.

- [Serverless Driver (beta)](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver.md)

  TiDB Serverless provides Serverless driver, a javascript driver that allows you to connect to your TiDB Serverless cluster in edge environments over HTTP.

## Choose a connection method

- The direct connection means the MySQL native connection system over TCP. You can use it in any long-running environment, like Java, Node.js, Python, etc.
- The Data Service provides restful HTTP API for you. You can use it for all browser and application interactions.
- The serverless driver is useful in edge environments such as Vercel Edge Function and Cloudflare Workers.

## Network

There are two network connection types for TiDB Serverless:

- [Private endpoint](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections-serverless.md) (recommended)

  Private endpoint connection provides a private endpoint to allow SQL clients in your VPC to securely access services over AWS PrivateLink, which provides highly secure and one-way access to database services with simplified network management.

- [Public endpoint](/tidb-cloud/connect-via-standard-connection-serverless.md)

  The standard connection exposes a public endpoint with traffic filters, so you can connect to your TiDB cluster via a SQL client from your laptop.

  TiDB Serverless supports [TLS connections](/tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-clusters.md), which ensures the security of data transmission from your applications to TiDB clusters.

The following table shows the network you can use in different connection methods:

| Connection method  | Network                     | Description                                                                                                             |
|--------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Direct connections | Public or private endpoint | Direct connections can be made via both public and private endpoints.                                                   |
| Data Service (beta)       | /                           | Accessing TiDB Serverless via Data Service (beta) is through API Key so there is no need to specify the network. |
| Serverless Driver (beta)  | Public endpoint             | Serverless Driver only supports connections via public endpoint.                                                        |
| Chat2Query (beta)         | /                           | Chat2Query does not need to specify the network.                                                                        |

## What's next

After you have successfully connected to your TiDB cluster, you can [explore SQL statements with TiDB](/basic-sql-operations.md).
