tidb-cloud/explore-data-with-chat2query.md, before:

---
title: Explore Your Data with AI-Powered Chat2Query (beta)
summary: Learn how to use Chat2Query, an AI-powered SQL editor in the TiDB Cloud console, to maximize your data value.
---

# Explore Your Data with AI-Powered Chat2Query (beta)

TiDB Cloud is powered by AI. You can use Chat2Query (beta), an AI-powered SQL editor in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), to maximize your data value.

In Chat2Query, you can either simply type `--` followed by your instructions to let AI generate SQL queries automatically or write SQL queries manually, and then run SQL queries against databases without a terminal. You can find the query results in tables intuitively and check the query logs easily.

> **Note:**
>
> Chat2Query is supported for TiDB clusters that are v6.5.0 or later and are hosted on AWS.
>
> - For [TiDB Serverless](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-serverless) clusters, Chat2Query is available by default.
> - For [TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-dedicated) clusters, Chat2Query is only available upon request. To use Chat2Query on TiDB Dedicated clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

## Use cases

The recommended use cases of Chat2Query are as follows:

- Use the AI capacity of Chat2Query to help you generate complex SQL queries instantly.
- Test out the MySQL compatibility of TiDB quickly.
- Explore TiDB SQL features easily.

## Limitation

- SQL queries generated by the AI are not 100% accurate and might still need your further tweak.
- The [Chat2Query API](/tidb-cloud/use-chat2query-api.md) is available for [TiDB Serverless](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-serverless) clusters. To use the Chat2Query API on [TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-dedicated) clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

## Access Chat2Query

1. Go to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If you have multiple projects, you can click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner and switch to another project.

2. Click your cluster name, and then click **Chat2Query** in the left navigation pane.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > In the following cases, the **Chat2Query** entry is displayed in grey and not clickable.
    >
    > - Your TiDB Dedicated cluster is earlier than v6.5.0. To use Chat2Query, you need to contract [TiDB Cloud support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to upgrade your clusters.
    > - Your TiDB Dedicated cluster is just created and the running environment for Chat2Query is still in preparation. In this case, wait for a few minutes and Chat2Query will be available.
    > - Your TiDB Dedicated cluster is [paused](/tidb-cloud/pause-or-resume-tidb-cluster.md).

## Enable or disable AI to generate SQL queries

PingCAP takes the privacy and security of users' data as a top priority. The AI capacity of Chat2Query only needs to access database schemas to generate SQL queries, not your data itself. For more information, see [Chat2Query Privacy FAQ](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/privacy-chat2query).

When you access Chat2Query for the first time, you will be prompted with a dialog about whether to allow PingCAP and OpenAI to use your code snippets to research and improve the services.

- To enable the AI to generate SQL queries, select the checkbox and click **Save and Get Started**.
- To disable the AI to generate SQL queries, close this dialog directly.

After the first-time access, you can still change the AI setting as follows:

- To enable AI, click **Enable AI power for data exploration** in the upper-right corner of Chat2Query.
- To disable AI, click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> in the lower-left corner of the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), click **Account Settings**, click the **Privacy** tab, and then disable the **AI-powered Data Exploration** option.

## Write and run SQL queries

In Chat2Query, you can write and run SQL queries using your own dataset.

1. Write SQL queries.

    - If AI is enabled, simply type `--` followed by your instructions to let AI generate SQL queries automatically or write SQL queries manually.

        For a SQL query generated by AI, you can accept it by pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd> and then further edit it if needed, or reject it by pressing <kbd>Esc</kbd>.

    - If AI is disabled, write SQL queries manually.

2. Run SQL queries.

    <SimpleTab>
    <div label="macOS">

    For macOS:

    - If you have only one query in the editor, to run it, press **⌘ + Enter** or click <svg width="1rem" height="1rem" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M6.70001 20.7756C6.01949 20.3926 6.00029 19.5259 6.00034 19.0422L6.00034 12.1205L6 5.33028C6 4.75247 6.00052 3.92317 6.38613 3.44138C6.83044 2.88625 7.62614 2.98501 7.95335 3.05489C8.05144 3.07584 8.14194 3.12086 8.22438 3.17798L19.2865 10.8426C19.2955 10.8489 19.304 10.8549 19.3126 10.8617C19.4069 10.9362 20 11.4314 20 12.1205C20 12.7913 19.438 13.2784 19.3212 13.3725C19.307 13.3839 19.2983 13.3902 19.2831 13.4002C18.8096 13.7133 8.57995 20.4771 8.10002 20.7756C7.60871 21.0812 7.22013 21.0683 6.70001 20.7756Z" fill="currentColor"></path></svg>**Run**.

    - If you have multiple queries in the editor, to run one or several of them sequentially, select the lines of the target queries with your cursor, and then press **⌘ + Enter** or click **Run**.

    - To run all queries in the editor sequentially, press **⇧ + ⌘ + Enter**, or select the lines of all queries with your cursor and click **Run**.

    </div>

    <div label="Windows/Linux">

    For Windows or Linux:

    - If you have only one query in the editor, to run it, press **Ctrl + Enter** or click <svg width="1rem" height="1rem" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M6.70001 20.7756C6.01949 20.3926 6.00029 19.5259 6.00034 19.0422L6.00034 12.1205L6 5.33028C6 4.75247 6.00052 3.92317 6.38613 3.44138C6.83044 2.88625 7.62614 2.98501 7.95335 3.05489C8.05144 3.07584 8.14194 3.12086 8.22438 3.17798L19.2865 10.8426C19.2955 10.8489 19.304 10.8549 19.3126 10.8617C19.4069 10.9362 20 11.4314 20 12.1205C20 12.7913 19.438 13.2784 19.3212 13.3725C19.307 13.3839 19.2983 13.3902 19.2831 13.4002C18.8096 13.7133 8.57995 20.4771 8.10002 20.7756C7.60871 21.0812 7.22013 21.0683 6.70001 20.7756Z" fill="currentColor"></path></svg>**Run**.

    - If you have multiple queries in the editor, to run one or several of them sequentially, select the lines of the target queries with your cursor, and then press **Ctrl + Enter** or click **Run**.

    - To run all queries in the editor sequentially, press **Shift + Ctrl + Enter**, or select the lines of all queries with your cursor and click **Run**.

    </div>
    </SimpleTab>

After running the queries, you can see the query logs and results immediately at the bottom of the page.

## Manage SQL files

In Chat2Query, you can save your SQL queries in different SQL files and manage SQL files as follows:

- To add a SQL file, click **+** on the **SQL Files** tab.
- To rename a SQL file, move your cursor on the filename, click **...** next to the filename, and then select **Rename**.
- To delete a SQL file, move your cursor on the filename, click **...** next to the filename, and then select **Delete**. Note that when there is only one SQL file on the **SQL Files** tab, you cannot delete it.

## Generate an endpoint from a SQL file

For TiDB clusters, TiDB Cloud provides a [Data Service (beta)](/tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md) feature that enables you to access TiDB Cloud data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. In Chat2Query, you can generate an endpoint of Data Service (beta) from a SQL file by taking the following steps:

1. Move your cursor on the filename, click **...** next to the filename, and then select **Generate endpoint**.
2. In the **Generate endpoint** dialog box, select the Data App you want to generate the endpoint for and enter the endpoint name.
3. Click **Generate**. The endpoint is generated and its details page is displayed.

For more information, see [Manage an endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md).

## Manage Chat2Query settings

In Chat2Query, you can change the following settings:

- The maximum number of rows in query results
- Whether to show system database schemas on the **Schemas** tab
- Whether to enable [Chat2Query API](/tidb-cloud/use-chat2query-api.md)

To change the settings, take the following steps:

1. In the upper-right corner of Chat2Query, click **...** and select **Settings**.
2. Change the settings according to your need.
3. Click **Save**.

Commit message:

add info about Standard Data App

tidb-cloud/explore-data-with-chat2query.md, after:

---
title: Explore Your Data with AI-Powered Chat2Query (beta)
summary: Learn how to use Chat2Query, an AI-powered SQL editor in the TiDB Cloud console, to maximize your data value.
---

# Explore Your Data with AI-Powered Chat2Query (beta)

TiDB Cloud is powered by AI. You can use Chat2Query (beta), an AI-powered SQL editor in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), to maximize your data value.

In Chat2Query, you can either simply type `--` followed by your instructions to let AI generate SQL queries automatically or write SQL queries manually, and then run SQL queries against databases without a terminal. You can find the query results in tables intuitively and check the query logs easily.

> **Note:**
>
> Chat2Query is supported for TiDB clusters that are v6.5.0 or later and are hosted on AWS.
>
> - For [TiDB Serverless](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-serverless) clusters, Chat2Query is available by default.
> - For [TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-dedicated) clusters, Chat2Query is only available upon request. To use Chat2Query on TiDB Dedicated clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

## Use cases

The recommended use cases of Chat2Query are as follows:

- Use the AI capacity of Chat2Query to help you generate complex SQL queries instantly.
- Test out the MySQL compatibility of TiDB quickly.
- Explore TiDB SQL features easily.

## Limitation

- SQL queries generated by the AI are not 100% accurate and might still need your further tweak.
- The [Chat2Query API](/tidb-cloud/use-chat2query-api.md) is available for [TiDB Serverless](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-serverless) clusters. To use the Chat2Query API on [TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-dedicated) clusters, contact [TiDB Cloud support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

## Access Chat2Query

1. Go to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If you have multiple projects, you can click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner and switch to another project.

2. Click your cluster name, and then click **Chat2Query** in the left navigation pane.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > In the following cases, the **Chat2Query** entry is displayed in grey and not clickable.
    >
    > - Your TiDB Dedicated cluster is earlier than v6.5.0. To use Chat2Query, you need to contract [TiDB Cloud support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md) to upgrade your clusters.
    > - Your TiDB Dedicated cluster is just created and the running environment for Chat2Query is still in preparation. In this case, wait for a few minutes and Chat2Query will be available.
    > - Your TiDB Dedicated cluster is [paused](/tidb-cloud/pause-or-resume-tidb-cluster.md).

## Enable or disable AI to generate SQL queries

PingCAP takes the privacy and security of users' data as a top priority. The AI capacity of Chat2Query only needs to access database schemas to generate SQL queries, not your data itself. For more information, see [Chat2Query Privacy FAQ](https://www.pingcap.com/privacy-policy/privacy-chat2query).

When you access Chat2Query for the first time, you will be prompted with a dialog about whether to allow PingCAP and OpenAI to use your code snippets to research and improve the services.

- To enable the AI to generate SQL queries, select the checkbox and click **Save and Get Started**.
- To disable the AI to generate SQL queries, close this dialog directly.

After the first-time access, you can still change the AI setting as follows:

- To enable AI, click **Enable AI power for data exploration** in the upper-right corner of Chat2Query.
- To disable AI, click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> in the lower-left corner of the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), click **Account Settings**, click the **Privacy** tab, and then disable the **AI-powered Data Exploration** option.

## Write and run SQL queries

In Chat2Query, you can write and run SQL queries using your own dataset.

1. Write SQL queries.

    - If AI is enabled, simply type `--` followed by your instructions to let AI generate SQL queries automatically or write SQL queries manually.

        For a SQL query generated by AI, you can accept it by pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd> and then further edit it if needed, or reject it by pressing <kbd>Esc</kbd>.

    - If AI is disabled, write SQL queries manually.

2. Run SQL queries.

    <SimpleTab>
    <div label="macOS">

    For macOS:

    - If you have only one query in the editor, to run it, press **⌘ + Enter** or click <svg width="1rem" height="1rem" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M6.70001 20.7756C6.01949 20.3926 6.00029 19.5259 6.00034 19.0422L6.00034 12.1205L6 5.33028C6 4.75247 6.00052 3.92317 6.38613 3.44138C6.83044 2.88625 7.62614 2.98501 7.95335 3.05489C8.05144 3.07584 8.14194 3.12086 8.22438 3.17798L19.2865 10.8426C19.2955 10.8489 19.304 10.8549 19.3126 10.8617C19.4069 10.9362 20 11.4314 20 12.1205C20 12.7913 19.438 13.2784 19.3212 13.3725C19.307 13.3839 19.2983 13.3902 19.2831 13.4002C18.8096 13.7133 8.57995 20.4771 8.10002 20.7756C7.60871 21.0812 7.22013 21.0683 6.70001 20.7756Z" fill="currentColor"></path></svg>**Run**.

    - If you have multiple queries in the editor, to run one or several of them sequentially, select the lines of the target queries with your cursor, and then press **⌘ + Enter** or click **Run**.

    - To run all queries in the editor sequentially, press **⇧ + ⌘ + Enter**, or select the lines of all queries with your cursor and click **Run**.

    </div>

    <div label="Windows/Linux">

    For Windows or Linux:

    - If you have only one query in the editor, to run it, press **Ctrl + Enter** or click <svg width="1rem" height="1rem" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><path d="M6.70001 20.7756C6.01949 20.3926 6.00029 19.5259 6.00034 19.0422L6.00034 12.1205L6 5.33028C6 4.75247 6.00052 3.92317 6.38613 3.44138C6.83044 2.88625 7.62614 2.98501 7.95335 3.05489C8.05144 3.07584 8.14194 3.12086 8.22438 3.17798L19.2865 10.8426C19.2955 10.8489 19.304 10.8549 19.3126 10.8617C19.4069 10.9362 20 11.4314 20 12.1205C20 12.7913 19.438 13.2784 19.3212 13.3725C19.307 13.3839 19.2983 13.3902 19.2831 13.4002C18.8096 13.7133 8.57995 20.4771 8.10002 20.7756C7.60871 21.0812 7.22013 21.0683 6.70001 20.7756Z" fill="currentColor"></path></svg>**Run**.

    - If you have multiple queries in the editor, to run one or several of them sequentially, select the lines of the target queries with your cursor, and then press **Ctrl + Enter** or click **Run**.

    - To run all queries in the editor sequentially, press **Shift + Ctrl + Enter**, or select the lines of all queries with your cursor and click **Run**.

    </div>
    </SimpleTab>

After running the queries, you can see the query logs and results immediately at the bottom of the page.

## Manage SQL files

In Chat2Query, you can save your SQL queries in different SQL files and manage SQL files as follows:

- To add a SQL file, click **+** on the **SQL Files** tab.
- To rename a SQL file, move your cursor on the filename, click **...** next to the filename, and then select **Rename**.
- To delete a SQL file, move your cursor on the filename, click **...** next to the filename, and then select **Delete**. Note that when there is only one SQL file on the **SQL Files** tab, you cannot delete it.

## Access Chat2Query via API

In addition to accessing Chat2Query via UI, you can also access Chat2Query via API. To do so, you need to create a Chat2Query Data App first.

In Chat2Query, you can access or create a Chat2Query Data App as follows:

1. Click **...** in the upper-right corner, and then click **Access Chat2Query via API**.
2. In the displayed dialog, do one of the following:

    - To create a new Chat2Query Data App, click **New Chat2Query Data App**.
    - To access an existing Chat2Query Data App, click the name of target Data App.

For more information, see [Get started with Chat2Query API](/tidb-cloud/use-chat2query-api.md).

## Generate an endpoint from a SQL file

For TiDB clusters, TiDB Cloud provides a [Data Service (beta)](/tidb-cloud/data-service-overview.md) feature that enables you to access TiDB Cloud data via an HTTPS request using a custom API endpoint. In Chat2Query, you can generate an endpoint of Data Service (beta) from a SQL file by taking the following steps:

1. Move your cursor on the filename, click **...** next to the filename, and then select **Generate endpoint**.
2. In the **Generate endpoint** dialog box, select the Data App you want to generate the endpoint for and enter the endpoint name.
3. Click **Generate**. The endpoint is generated and its details page is displayed.

For more information, see [Manage an endpoint](/tidb-cloud/data-service-manage-endpoint.md).

## Manage Chat2Query settings

In Chat2Query, you can change the following settings:

- The maximum number of rows in query results
- Whether to show system database schemas on the **Schemas** tab

To change the settings, take the following steps:

1. In the upper-right corner of Chat2Query, click **...** and select **Settings**.
2. Change the settings according to your need.
3. Click **Save**.
