tidb-cloud/import-with-mysql-cli.md, before:

---
title: Import Data into TiDB Cloud via MySQL Commands in Terminal
summary: Learn how to import Data into TiDB Cloud via MySQL CLI.
---

# Import MySQL Data via MySQL Commands in Terminal

## Prerequisites

Before you can import data via MySQL CLI to TiDB Cloud, you should have the following prerequisites in place:

- Access to your TiDB Cloud Cluster. If you don't have a TiDB cluster, you can create one as [follows](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md).
- MySQL CLI installed on your local machine.

## Steps

### 1. Connect to your TiDB Cloud Cluster

Connect to your TiDB cluster depending on the TiDB deployment option you have selected.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="TiDB Serverless">

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

3. Ensure the configurations in the connection dialog match your operating environment.

    - **Endpoint Type** is set to `Public`.
    - **Connect With** is set to `MySQL CLI`.
    - **Operating System** matches your environment.

4. Click **Create password** to create a random password.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If you have created a password before, you can either use the original password or click **Reset password** to generate a new one.

</div>
<div label="TiDB Dedicated">

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

3. Click **Allow Access from Anywhere**.

    For more details about how to obtain the connection string, refer to [TiDB Dedicated standard connection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/connect-via-standard-connection).
    
</div>
</SimpleTab>

### 2. Define Table and Insert Sample Data

Before importing data, you need to prepare the table structure and insert real sample data into it. Here's an example using a hypothetical "products" table:

```sql
-- Create a table in your TiDB database
CREATE TABLE products (
    product_id INT PRIMARY KEY,
    product_name VARCHAR(255),
    price DECIMAL(10, 2)
);

-- Insert sample data into the table
INSERT INTO products (product_id, product_name, price) VALUES
    (1, 'Laptop', 999.99),
    (2, 'Smartphone', 499.99),
    (3, 'Tablet', 299.99);
```

### 3. Import Data from SQL File

1. Provide a real SQL file (e.g., `product_data.sql`) that contains the data you want to import. This SQL file should contain INSERT statements with real data.

2. Use the following command to import data from the SQL file:

```bash
mysql --comments --connect-timeout 150 -u '<your_username>' -h <your_cluster_host> -P 4000 -D test --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=<your_ca_path> -p <your_password> < product_data.sql
```

> **Note:**
> The default database name used here is 'test', and you can either manually create your own database or use the 'create database' command in an SQL file.

### 4. Import Data from CSV File

1. Create a database and schema in TiDB to match your data import needs.

2. Provide a sample CSV file (e.g., `product_data.csv`) that contains the data you want to import. Here's an example of what your sample CSV file might look like:

    **product_data.csv:**

    ```csv
    product_id,product_name,price
    4,Laptop,999.99
    5,Smartphone,499.99
    6,Tablet,299.99
    ```

3. Use the following command to import data from the CSV file:

    ```bash
    mysql --comments --connect-timeout 150 -u '<your_username>' -h <your_host> -P 4000 -D test --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=<your_ca_path> -p<your_password> -e "LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE '<your_csv_path>' INTO TABLE products 
    FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
    LINES TERMINATED BY '\n'
    IGNORE 1 LINES (product_id, product_name, price);"
    ```

4. Make sure to adjust the paths, table name ('products' in this example), and other specifics according to your actual data and setup.

> **Note:**
> Replace `<your_username>`, `<your_host>`, `<your_password>`, `<your_csv_path>`, `<your_ca_path>`, and other placeholders with your actual information, and replace the sample CSV data with your real dataset as needed.
> For more syntax details about `LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE`, please refer to: [MySQL Official Documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/load-data.html)

Commit message:

add sql file name earlier

tidb-cloud/import-with-mysql-cli.md, after:

---
title: Import Data into TiDB Cloud via MySQL Commands in Terminal
summary: Learn how to import Data into TiDB Cloud via MySQL CLI.
---

# Import MySQL Data via MySQL Commands in Terminal

## Prerequisites

Before you can import data via MySQL CLI to TiDB Cloud, you should have the following prerequisites in place:

- Access to your TiDB Cloud Cluster. If you don't have a TiDB cluster, you can create one as [follows](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md).
- MySQL CLI installed on your local machine.

## Steps

### 1. Connect to your TiDB Cloud Cluster

Connect to your TiDB cluster depending on the TiDB deployment option you have selected.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="TiDB Serverless">

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

3. Ensure the configurations in the connection dialog match your operating environment.

    - **Endpoint Type** is set to `Public`.
    - **Connect With** is set to `MySQL CLI`.
    - **Operating System** matches your environment.

4. Click **Create password** to create a random password.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If you have created a password before, you can either use the original password or click **Reset password** to generate a new one.

</div>
<div label="TiDB Dedicated">

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page, and then click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A connection dialog is displayed.

3. Click **Allow Access from Anywhere**.

    For more details about how to obtain the connection string, refer to [TiDB Dedicated standard connection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/connect-via-standard-connection).

</div>
</SimpleTab>

### 2. Define Table and Insert Sample Data

Before importing data, you need to prepare the table structure and insert real sample data into it. Here's an example SQL file(`product_data.sql`) that you can use to create a table and insert sample data:

```sql
-- Create a table in your TiDB database
CREATE TABLE products (
    product_id INT PRIMARY KEY,
    product_name VARCHAR(255),
    price DECIMAL(10, 2)
);

-- Insert sample data into the table
INSERT INTO products (product_id, product_name, price) VALUES
    (1, 'Laptop', 999.99),
    (2, 'Smartphone', 499.99),
    (3, 'Tablet', 299.99);
```

### 3. Import Data from SQL File

1. Provide a real SQL file (e.g., `product_data.sql`) that contains the data you want to import. This SQL file should contain INSERT statements with real data.

2. Use the following command to import data from the SQL file:

```bash
mysql --comments --connect-timeout 150 -u '<your_username>' -h <your_cluster_host> -P 4000 -D test --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=<your_ca_path> -p <your_password> < product_data.sql
```

> **Note:**
> The default database name used here is 'test', and you can either manually create your own database or use the 'create database' command in an SQL file.

### 4. Import Data from CSV File

1. Create a database and schema in TiDB to match your data import needs.

2. Provide a sample CSV file (e.g., `product_data.csv`) that contains the data you want to import. Here's an example of what your sample CSV file might look like:

    **product_data.csv:**

    ```csv
    product_id,product_name,price
    4,Laptop,999.99
    5,Smartphone,499.99
    6,Tablet,299.99
    ```

3. Use the following command to import data from the CSV file:

    ```bash
    mysql --comments --connect-timeout 150 -u '<your_username>' -h <your_host> -P 4000 -D test --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=<your_ca_path> -p<your_password> -e "LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE '<your_csv_path>' INTO TABLE products 
    FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
    LINES TERMINATED BY '\n'
    IGNORE 1 LINES (product_id, product_name, price);"
    ```

4. Make sure to adjust the paths, table name ('products' in this example), and other specifics according to your actual data and setup.

> **Note:**
> Replace `<your_username>`, `<your_host>`, `<your_password>`, `<your_csv_path>`, `<your_ca_path>`, and other placeholders with your actual information, and replace the sample CSV data with your real dataset as needed.
> For more syntax details about `LOAD DATA LOCAL INFILE`, please refer to: [MySQL Official Documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/load-data.html)
