---
title: Index Insight
summary: Learn how to obtain the index recommendations for your slow queries.
---

# Index Insight

## Introduction

The Index Insight feature in TiDB Cloud provides powerful capabilities to optimize query performance by offering index recommendations for slow queries that are not utilizing indexes effectively. This user guide will walk you through the steps to enable and utilize the Index Insight feature effectively.

> **Note:**
>
> Index Insight is currently available as a Beta version, offering this feature for free to all users.
> This feature is only available for [Dedicated Tier clusters](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier).

## Value to Users:

The Index Insight feature in TiDB Cloud brings several significant benefits to users:

- Enhanced Query Performance: By identifying and recommending appropriate indexes for slow queries, users can significantly improve query execution time, leading to faster response times and a better user experience.

- Cost Savings: Optimized query performance reduces the need for additional computing resources, allowing users to achieve more with their existing infrastructure and potentially saving on operational costs.

- Simplified Optimization Process: Index Insight simplifies the process of identifying and implementing index improvements, eliminating the need for manual analysis and guesswork. Users can rely on the feature to provide accurate recommendations, saving time and effort.

- Improved Application Efficiency: By optimizing database performance, applications running on TiDB Cloud can handle larger workloads and serve more concurrent users, enabling businesses to scale their operations effectively.

## Enabling Index Insight

To enable the Index Insight feature in TiDB Cloud, follow these steps:

### Create a Dedicated SQL User

Create a new SQL user dedicated to utilizing the Index Insight feature. This dedicated user will be used to trigger the capability and receive index recommendations. Ensure the user has the necessary permissions and access to query the relevant tables.

Index insight requires read access to database information_schema and mysql. You can create a new SQL user on your SQL client to activate this feature. Please replace your user name and password in the 'yourusername' and 'yourpassword' field.

CREATE user 'yourusername'@'%' IDENTIFIED by 'yourpassword';
GRANT SELECT ON information_schema.* TO 'yourusername'@'%';
GRANT SELECT ON mysql.* TO 'yourusername'@'%';
GRANT PROCESS, REFERENCES ON *.* TO 'yourusername'@'%';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;

## Activate the feature

Enter the SQL user created specifically for Index Insight in the designated input field. Click on the "Activate" button to initiate the activation process.

Note: Ensure that the SQL user you enter has the necessary permissions and access to query the relevant tables. If you haven't created a dedicated SQL user for Index Insight yet, please refer to the user documentation for instructions on creating one.

## Trigger insight manually

To manually trigger the index recommendation capability and obtain index suggestions, you should locate the "Check Up" button and click on it.

After you triggered this insight, the functionality will initiate a scan of slow queries from the past 3 hours. Once the scan is complete, index recommendations will be provided based on the analysis.

## Utilizing Index Recommendations

Once the Index Insight feature has provided index recommendations, follow these guidelines to utilize them effectively:

### Review Index Recommendations

Review the index recommendations generated by the Index Insight. Each recommendation includes details such as the query, tables involved, and the suggested index. Evaluate the recommendations based on their potential impact on query performance.

### Implementing Indexes

To implement the recommended indexes, follow these steps:

- Evaluate the impact of the proposed index on existing queries and workload.

- Consider the storage requirements and potential trade-offs associated with the index implementation.

- Use appropriate database management tools to create the recommended indexes on the relevant tables.

- Monitor the performance after implementing the indexes to assess the improvements.

## Best Practices

Consider the following best practices when using the Index Insight feature:

### Regularly Trigger Index Insight

To keep your indexes optimized, it is recommended to trigger the Index Insight capability periodically or whenever there are significant changes to your queries or database schema.

### Analyze Impact Before Implementing Indexes

Before implementing the recommended indexes, analyze the potential impact on query execution plans, disk space, and any trade-offs involved. Prioritize implementing indexes that provide the most significant performance improvements.

### Monitor Performance

Continuously monitor query performance after implementing the recommended indexes to validate the improvements and make further adjustments if necessary.

## Feedback and Support

We value your feedback and are dedicated to improving the Index Insight feature. If you encounter any issues, have suggestions for enhancements, or need assistance, please reach out to our support team at [support email/URL].

## Conclusion

By leveraging the Index Insight feature in TiDB Cloud, you can optimize query performance and enhance overall application efficiency. Follow the steps outlined in this user guide to enable the feature, review index recommendations, and implement them effectively. Regularly utilizing the Index Insight feature will help you maintain optimal query performance in your TiDB Cloud environment.
