---
title: Encryption at Rest Using Customer-Managed Encryption Keys
summary: Learn about how to use Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) in TiDB Cloud.
---

# Encryption at Rest Using Customer-Managed Encryption Keys

Customer-Managed Encryption Key (CMEK) allows you to secure your static data in a TiDB Dedicated cluster by utilizing a cryptographic key that is under your complete control. This key is referred to as the CMEK key.

Once CMEK is enabled for a project, all clusters created within that project encrypt their static data using the CMEK key. Additionally, any backup data generated by these clusters is encrypted using the same key. If CMEK is not enabled, TiDB Cloud employs an escrow key to encrypt all data in your cluster when it is at rest.

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, this feature is only available upon request. If you need to try out this feature, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

## Restrictions

- Currently, TiDB Cloud only supports using AWS KMS to provide CMEK.
- To use CMEK, you need to enable CMEK when creating a project and complete CMEK-related configurations before creating a cluster. You cannot enable CMEK for existing projects.
- Currently, in CMEK-enabled projects, you can only create [TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-dedicated) clusters hosted on AWS. TiDB Dedicated clusters hosted on GCP and [TiDB Serverless](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#tidb-serverless) clusters are not supported.
- Currently, for a specific project, you can only enable CMEK for one AWS region. Once you have configured it, you cannot create clusters in other regions within the same project.

## Enable CMEK

If you want to encrypt your data using the KMS owned by your account, take the following steps.

### Step 1. Create a CMEK-enabled project

> **Note:**
>
> You can complete this step through [Create a CMEK-enabled project](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta#tag/Project/operation/CreateProject) endpoint of TiDB Cloud API. Make sure the `aws_cmek_enabled` field is set to `true`.

You need to create a CMEK-enabled project, take the following steps:

1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-organization" /> in the lower-left corner of the TiDB Cloud console.
2. Click **Organization Settings**. You can enter your organization management page.
3. Click **Create New Project** to enter the project creation page.
4. Fill in a project name
5. Choose to enable the CMEK capability of the Project.
6. Click **Confirm** to complete the project creation.

> **Note:**
>
> After creating a CMEK-enabled project, you will be redirected to the Encryption Access page so that you can complete the CMEK configuration.

### Step 2. Complete the CMEK configuration of the project

> **Note:**
>
> You can complete this step through the "Configure AWS CMEK" endpoint of the TiDB Cloud API.

You need to complete the CMEK configuration of the project, take the following steps:
1.  Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner, switch to the target project if you have multiple projects, and then click **Admin**.
2. Click **Encryption Access** to enter the encryption management page of the project.
3. Click **Create Encryption Key** to enter the key creation page.
4. The key provider only supports AWS KMS. You can choose the region where the encryption key is used.
5. Copy and save JSON file as ROLE-TRUST-POLICY.JSON，This file describes the trust relationship. Please add this trust relationship to the key policy of AWS KMS. Please refer to [Key policies in AWS KMS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/zh_cn/kms/latest/developerguide/key-policies.html).
6. Fill in the Key ARN obtained from AWS KMS.
7. Click **Create** to complete the creation of the key.

> **Note:**
>
> - this feature is in the development stage and the policy requirement could be subject to change as future features might require more permissions. 
> - For projects that do not have CMEK enabled, you can view the Encryption Access page, but you are not allowed to click Create New Key.

### Step 3. Create a cluster

[Create a TiDB Dedicated Cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/create-tidb-cluster) hosted on AWS under the project created in Step 1. Ensure that the region where the cluster is located is the same as that in Step 2.

> **Note:**
>
> When CMEK is enabled, the EBS volumes used by the nodes of the cluster and the S3 used for the cluster backups are encrypted using CMEK.

## Rotate CMEK

You can configure [automatic CMEK rotation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/rotate-keys.html) on AWS KMS. With this rotation enabled, you do not need to update the Encryption at Rest project settings in TiDB Cloud, including the CMEK ID.

## Revoke and restore CMEK

If you need to temporarily revoke TiDB Cloud's access to CMEK, follow these steps:

1. On the AWS KMS console, revoke the corresponding permissions and update the KMS Key policy.
2. On the TiDB Cloud console, pause all the clusters in the project.

> **Note:**
>
> After you revoke CMEK on AWS KMS, your running clusters are not affected. However, when you pause a cluster and then restore the cluster, the cluster will not be able to restore normally because it cannot access CMEK.

After revoking TiDB Cloud's access to CMEK, if you need to restore the access, follow these steps:

1. On the AWS KMS console, restore the CMEK access policy.
2. On the TiDB Cloud console, restore all clusters in the project.

## Appendix

If you need to configure CMEK through TiDB Cloud API, You need to use the "Configure AWS CMEK" endpoint of the TiDB Cloud API. Before calling the API, you need to configure the key policy on AWS KMS, please add the following information to In the key policy:

    ```json
    {
        "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Id": "cmek-policy",
        "Statement": [
            // EBS-related policy
            {
                "Sid": "Allow access through EBS for all principals in the account that are authorized to use EBS",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "*"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Encrypt",
                    "kms:Decrypt",
                    "kms:ReEncrypt*",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey*",
                    "kms:CreateGrant",
                    "kms:DescribeKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*",
                "Condition": {
                    "StringEquals": {
                        "kms:CallerAccount": "<pingcap-account>",
                        "kms:ViaService": "ec2.<region>.amazonaws.com"
                    }
                }
            },
            // S3-related policy
            {
                "Sid": "Allow TiDB cloud role to use KMS to store encrypted backup to S3",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<pingcap-account>:root"
                },
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Decrypt",
                    "kms:GenerateDataKey"
                ],
                "Resource": "*"
            },
            ... // user's own admin access to KMS
        ]
    }
    ```

> **Note:**
>
> - `<pingcap-account>` is the account where your clusters run in. If you do not know the account, contact [support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
> - `<region>` is the region where you want to create your cluster, for example, `us-west-2`. If you do not want to specify a region, replace `<region>` with a wildcard `*`, and put it in a `StringLike` block.
> - For EBS-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/conditions-kms.html#conditions-kms-caller-account).
> - For S3-related policy in the preceding block, refer to [AWS blog](https://repost.aws/knowledge-center/s3-bucket-access-default-encryption).

