---
title: Password Authentication
summary: Learn how to manage passwords and enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) in the TiDB Cloud console.
---

# Password Authentication

This document describes how to manage passwords and enable multi-factor authentication (MFA) in the TiDB Cloud console. The document is only applicable to users who [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords.

## Sign up

You can either [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with email and password, or choose your Google, GitHub, or Microsoft account for single sign-on (SSO) to TiDB Cloud.

- If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with email and password, you can manage your password according to this document.
- If you choose Google, GitHub, or Microsoft SSO to TiDB Cloud, your password is managed by your chosen platform and you cannot change it using the TiDB Cloud console.

To sign up for a TiDB Cloud account with email and password, take the following steps:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) page and fill in the registration information.

2. Read Privacy Policy and Services Agreement, and then select **I agree to the Privacy Policy and Services Agreement**.

3. Click **Sign up**.

You will receive a verification email for TiDB Cloud. To complete the whole registration process, check your email box and confirm the registration.

## Sign in or sign out

### Sign in

To log into TiDB Cloud using email and password, take the following steps:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

2. Fill in your email and password.

3. Click **Sign In**.

If the login is successful, you will be directed to the TiDB Cloud console.

### Sign out

In the lower-left corner of the TiDB Cloud console, click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> and select **Logout**.

## Password policy

TiDB Cloud sets a default password policy for registered users. If your password does not meet the policy, you will get a prompt when you set the password.

The default password policy is as follows:

- At least 8 characters in length.
- At least 1 uppercase letter (A-Z).
- At least 1 lowercase letter (a-z).
- At least 1 number (0-9).
- A new password must not be the same as any of the previous four passwords.

## Reset a password

> **Note:**
>
> This section is only applicable to TiDB Cloud registration with email and password. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with Google SSO or GitHub SSO, your password is managed by Google or GitHub and you cannot change it using the TiDB Cloud console.

If you forget your password, you can reset it by email as follows:

1. Go to the TiDB Cloud [login](https://tidbcloud.com/) page.

2. Click **Forgot password**, and then check your email for the link to reset the password.

## Change a password

> **Note:**
>
> If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with email and password, it is recommended that you reset your password every 90 days. Otherwise, you will get a password expiration reminder to change your password when you log in to TiDB Cloud.

1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> in the lower-left corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

2. Click **Account Settings**.

3. In the **Password** section, click **Change Password**, and then check your email for TiDB Cloud to reset the password.

## Manage multi-factor authentication (optional)

> **Note:**
>
> - This section applies only when you [sign up](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial) for TiDB Cloud with emails and passwords. If you sign up for TiDB Cloud with Google, GitHub, or Microsoft SSO, you can enable MFA on your chosen identity management platform.
> - If you have enabled TiDB Cloud MFA in an SSO login scenario, migrate your MFA management to your SSO identity management platform before **September 30, 2025**, to ensure account security.

Multi-factor authentication (MFA) adds additional security by requiring an Authenticator app to generate a one-time verification code for login. When you log in, TiDB Cloud verifies both your password and the MFA verification code. You can use any Authenticator app from the iOS or Android App Store to generate this password, such as Google Authenticator and Authy.

### Enable MFA

1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> in the lower-left corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

2. Click **Account Settings**.

3. In the **Multi-Factor Authentication** section, click **Enable**.

4. Enter your account password to confirm your identity.

5. In the **Set Up Authenticator App** section, use your authenticator app to scan the QR code and associate your MFA device.

6. Enter the authentication code generated by your app to complete the MFA device association.

7. Save the one-time recovery code, which helps you authenticate if your MFA device is unavailable.

> **Note:**
>
> - You need to store the recovery code securely to maintain account security.
> - If you use the recovery code for MFA verification during login, the system automatically generates a new recovery code after successful verification.

### Disable MFA

1. Click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-top-account-settings" /> in the lower-left corner of the TiDB Cloud console.

2. Click **Account Settings**.

3. In the **Multi-Factor Authentication** section, click **Disable**.

4. Enter your account password and MFA authentication code to confirm the operation.

> **Note:**
>
> Disabling MFA reduces the security of your account. Proceed with caution.
