tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated.md, before:

---
title: TLS Connections to TiDB Dedicated
summary: Introduce TLS connections in TiDB Dedicated.
aliases: ['/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated-tier']
---

# TLS Connections to TiDB Dedicated

On TiDB Cloud, establishing TLS connections is one of the basic security practices for connecting to TiDB Dedicated clusters. You can configure multiple TLS connections from your client, application, and development tools to your TiDB Dedicated cluster to protect data transmission security. For security reasons, TiDB Dedicated only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions.

To ensure data security, TiDB cluster CA for your TiDB Dedicated cluster is hosted on [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/), and TiDB cluster private keys are stored in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards.

## Prerequisites

- Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md), and then [Create a TiDB Dedicated cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

- Set a password to access your cluster in secure settings.

    To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your TiDB Dedicated cluster, and then select **Security Settings**. In security settings, you can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters.

## Secure connection to a TiDB Dedicated cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your TiDB Dedicated cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your TiDB Dedicated cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed.

3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connection.
   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download TiDB cluster CA
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

4. Under **Step 1: Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).

5. Under **Step 2: Download TiDB cluster CA**, click **Download TiDB cluster CA** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. The TiDB cluster CA ensures that the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > After downloading your TiDB Dedicated cluster CA, you can store it in the default storage path of your operating system, or specify another storage path. You need to replace the CA path in the code example with your own cluster CA path in the subsequent steps.

6. Under **Step 3: Connect with an SQL client** in the dialog, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then refer to the connection string and sample code on the tab to connect to your cluster.

The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI">

MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated clusters, you need to set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=ca.pem --tls-version="TLSv1.2" -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test -p
```

Parameter description：

- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL CLI client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
- Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.

</div>

<div label="MyCLI">

[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) automatically enables TLS when using TLS related parameters. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated clusters, you need to set `ssl-ca` and `ssl-verify-server-cert`.

```shell
mycli --ssl-ca=ca.pem --ssl-verify-server-cert -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
- With `--ssl-verify-server-cert` to validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.

</div>

<div label="JDBC">

[MySQL Connector/J](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

After downloading TiDB cluster CA, if you want to import it into your operating system, you can use the `keytool -importcert -alias TiDBCACert -file ca.pem -keystore <your_custom_truststore_path> -storepass <your_truststore_password>` command.

```shell
/* Be sure to replace the parameters in the following connection string. */
/* version >= 8.0.28 */
jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
import com.mysql.jdbc.Driver;
import java.sql.*;

class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) throws SQLException, ClassNotFoundException {
    Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");
    try {
      Connection conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>");
      Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();
      try {
        ResultSet rs = stmt.executeQuery("SELECT DATABASE();");
        if (rs.next()) {
          System.out.println("using db:" + rs.getString(1));
        }
      } catch (Exception e) {
        System.out.println("exec error:" + e);
      }
    } catch (Exception e) {
      System.out.println("connect error:" + e);
    }
  }
}
```

Parameter description：

- Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl` to your custom truststore path.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStorePassword` to your truststore password.

</div>

<div label="Python">

[mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", user="root", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"}
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
import MySQLdb

connection = MySQLdb.connect(host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", port=4000, user="root", password="<your_password>", database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"})

with connection:
    with connection.cursor() as cursor:
        cursor.execute("SELECT DATABASE();")
        m = cursor.fetchone()
        print(m[0])
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Set `ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY"` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Use `ssl={"ca": "<CA_path>"}` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.

</div>

<div label="Go">

[Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
}
if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
}
mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
})

db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
package main
import (
  "crypto/tls"
  "crypto/x509"
  "database/sql"
  "fmt"
  "io/ioutil"
  "log"

  "github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql"
)
func main() {
  rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
  pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
  }
  if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
  }
  mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
  })
  db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to connect database", err)
  }
  defer db.Close()

  var dbName string
  err = db.QueryRow("SELECT DATABASE();").Scan(&dbName)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to execute query", err)
  }
  fmt.Println(dbName)
}
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Register `tls.Config` in the TLS connection configuration to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
- Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Dedicated's hostname.
- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_path>')}` to read your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Manage root certificates for TiDB Dedicated

TiDB Dedicated uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connections between clients and TiDB Dedicated clusters. Usually, the root certificates of ACM are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards.

## FAQs

### Which TLS versions are supported to connect to my TiDB Dedicated cluster?

For security reasons, TiDB Dedicated only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.

### Is two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Dedicated supported?

No.

TiDB Dedicated only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way TLS authentication currently. If you need two-way TLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Commit message:

Modify the inaccuracies in the TLS description (#15312)
* Modify the inaccuracies in the TLS description

* Apply suggestions from code review

* CA cert description modification

* Update tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated.md

* Update migrate-from-mysql-using-aws-dms.md

* Update tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated.md

Co-authored-by: xixirangrang <hfxsd@hotmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Update tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated.md

---------

Co-authored-by: lianan-352889950 <35288995@qq.com>
Co-authored-by: Grace Cai <qqzczy@126.com>
Co-authored-by: xixirangrang <hfxsd@hotmail.com>

tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated.md, after:

---
title: TLS Connections to TiDB Dedicated
summary: Introduce TLS connections in TiDB Dedicated.
aliases: ['/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-tls-connect-to-dedicated-tier']
---

# TLS Connections to TiDB Dedicated

On TiDB Cloud, establishing TLS connections is one of the basic security practices for connecting to TiDB Dedicated clusters. You can configure multiple TLS connections from your client, application, and development tools to your TiDB Dedicated cluster to protect data transmission security. For security reasons, TiDB Dedicated only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions.

To ensure data security, TiDB cluster CA for your TiDB Dedicated cluster is hosted on [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/), and TiDB cluster private keys are stored in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards.

## Prerequisites

- Log in to TiDB Cloud via [Password Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-password-authentication.md) or [SSO Authentication](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-sso-authentication.md), and then [Create a TiDB Dedicated cluster](/tidb-cloud/create-tidb-cluster.md).

- Set a password to access your cluster in secure settings.

    To do so, you can navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click **...** in the row of your TiDB Dedicated cluster, and then select **Security Settings**. In security settings, you can click **Generate** to automatically generate a root password with a length of 16 characters, including numbers, uppercase and lowercase characters, and special characters.

## Secure connection to a TiDB Dedicated cluster

In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), you can get examples of different connection methods and connect to your TiDB Dedicated cluster as follows:

1. Navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, and then click the name of your TiDB Dedicated cluster to go to its overview page.

2. Click **Connect** in the upper-right corner. A dialog is displayed.

3. On the **Standard Connection** tab of this dialog, follow the three steps to set up the TLS connection.
   - Step 1：Create traffic filter
   - Step 2：Download CA cert
   - Step 3：Connect with an SQL client

4. Under **Step 1: Create traffic filter** in the dialog, configure the IP addresses that are allowed to access your cluster. For more information, see [Configure an IP access list in standard connection](/tidb-cloud/configure-ip-access-list.md#configure-an-ip-access-list-in-standard-connection).

5. Under **Step 2: Download CA cert**, click **Download CA cert** to download it locally for client TLS configuration. The CA cert ensures that the TLS connection is secure and reliable.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - You can store the downloaded CA cert in the default storage path of your operating system, or specify another storage path. You need to replace the CA cert path in the code example with your own CA cert path in the subsequent steps.  
   > - TiDB Dedicated does not force clients to use TLS connections, and user-defined configuration of the [`require_secure_transport`](/system-variables.md#require_secure_transport-new-in-v610) variable is currently not supported on TiDB Dedicated.

6. Under **Step 3: Connect with an SQL client** in the dialog, click the tab of your preferred connection method, and then refer to the connection string and sample code on the tab to connect to your cluster.

The following examples show the connection strings in MySQL, MyCLI, JDBC, Python, Go, and Node.js:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI">

MySQL CLI client attempts to establish a TLS connection by default. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated clusters, you need to set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=ca.pem --tls-version="TLSv1.2" -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test -p
```

Parameter description：

- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL CLI client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
- Use `--tls-version=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.

</div>

<div label="MyCLI">

[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) automatically enables TLS when using TLS related parameters. When you connect to TiDB Dedicated clusters, you need to set `ssl-ca` and `ssl-verify-server-cert`.

```shell
mycli --ssl-ca=ca.pem --ssl-verify-server-cert -u root -h tidb.eqlfbdgthh8.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com -P 4000 -D test
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_path>` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.
- With `--ssl-verify-server-cert` to validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.

</div>

<div label="JDBC">

[MySQL Connector/J](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

After downloading TiDB cluster CA, if you want to import it into your operating system, you can use the `keytool -importcert -alias TiDBCACert -file ca.pem -keystore <your_custom_truststore_path> -storepass <your_truststore_password>` command.

```shell
/* Be sure to replace the parameters in the following connection string. */
/* version >= 8.0.28 */
jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
import com.mysql.jdbc.Driver;
import java.sql.*;

class Main {
  public static void main(String args[]) throws SQLException, ClassNotFoundException {
    Class.forName("com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver");
    try {
      Connection conn = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:mysql://tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000/test?user=root&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&tlsVersions=TLSv1.2&trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl=file:<your_custom_truststore_path>&trustCertificateKeyStorePassword=<your_truststore_password>");
      Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();
      try {
        ResultSet rs = stmt.executeQuery("SELECT DATABASE();");
        if (rs.next()) {
          System.out.println("using db:" + rs.getString(1));
        }
      } catch (Exception e) {
        System.out.println("exec error:" + e);
      }
    } catch (Exception e) {
      System.out.println("connect error:" + e);
    }
  }
}
```

Parameter description：

- Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStoreUrl` to your custom truststore path.
- Set `trustCertificateKeyStorePassword` to your truststore password.

</div>

<div label="Python">

[mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", user="root", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"}
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
import MySQLdb

connection = MySQLdb.connect(host="tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com", port=4000, user="root", password="<your_password>", database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "ca.pem"})

with connection:
    with connection.cursor() as cursor:
        cursor.execute("SELECT DATABASE();")
        m = cursor.fetchone()
        print(m[0])
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Set `ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY"` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Use `ssl={"ca": "<CA_path>"}` to specify your local path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.

</div>

<div label="Go">

[Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
}
if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
}
mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
})

db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
package main
import (
  "crypto/tls"
  "crypto/x509"
  "database/sql"
  "fmt"
  "io/ioutil"
  "log"

  "github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql"
)
func main() {
  rootCertPool := x509.NewCertPool()
  pem, err := ioutil.ReadFile("ca.pem")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal(err)
  }
  if ok := rootCertPool.AppendCertsFromPEM(pem); !ok {
    log.Fatal("Failed to append PEM.")
  }
  mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
    RootCAs:    rootCertPool,
    MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
    ServerName: "tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com",
  })
  db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "root:<your_password>@tcp(tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to connect database", err)
  }
  defer db.Close()

  var dbName string
  err = db.QueryRow("SELECT DATABASE();").Scan(&dbName)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatal("failed to execute query", err)
  }
  fmt.Println(dbName)
}
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Register `tls.Config` in the TLS connection configuration to enable TLS and validate TiDB Dedicated clusters.
- Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
- Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Dedicated's hostname.
- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
```

You can click **show example usage** to view detailed code examples.

```
var mysql = require('mysql2');
var fs = require('fs');
var connection = mysql.createConnection({
  host: 'tidb.srgnqxji5bc.clusters.staging.tidb-cloud.com',
  port: 4000,
  user: 'root',
  password: '<your_password>',
  database: 'test',
  ssl: {
    ca: fs.readFileSync('ca.pem'),
    minVersion: 'TLSv1.2',
    rejectUnauthorized: true
  }
});
connection.connect(function(err) {
  if (err) {
    throw err
  }
  connection.query('SELECT DATABASE();', function(err, rows) {
    if (err) {
      throw err
    }
    console.log(rows[0]['DATABASE()']);
    connection.end()
  });
});
```

Parameter descriptions：

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of the TLS protocol. If you want to use TLS 1.3, you can set the version to `TLSv1.3`.
- Set `ssl: {ca: fs.readFileSync('<CA_path>')}` to read your local CA path of the downloaded TiDB cluster `ca.pem`.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Manage root certificates for TiDB Dedicated

TiDB Dedicated uses certificates from [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connections between clients and TiDB Dedicated clusters. Usually, the root certificates of ACM are stored securely in AWS-managed hardware security modules (HSMs) that meet [FIPS 140-2 Level 3](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/Certificate/3139) security standards.

## FAQs

### Which TLS versions are supported to connect to my TiDB Dedicated cluster?

For security reasons, TiDB Dedicated only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3, and does not support TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions. See IETF [Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8996/) for details.

### Is two-way TLS authentication between my client and TiDB Dedicated supported?

No.

TiDB Dedicated only supports one-way TLS authentication, and does not support two-way TLS authentication currently. If you need two-way TLS authentication, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
