---
title: Data Migration Billing
summary: Learn about billing for Data Migration in TiDB Cloud.
---

# Data Migration Billing

This document describes the billing for Data Migration in TiDB Cloud.

## Specifications for Data Migration

TiDB Cloud measures the capacity of Data Migration in Replication Capacity Units (RCUs). When you create a data migration job, you can select an appropriate specification. The higher the RCU, the better the migration performance. You will be charged for these Data Migration RCUs.

The following table lists the specifications for Data Migration.

| Specification | Full data migration | Incremental data migration |
|---------------|---------------------|----------------------------|
| 2 RCUs  | 25 MiB/s | 10000 rows/s|
| 4 RCUs  | 35 MiB/s | 20000 rows/s|
| 8 RCUs  | 40 MiB/s | 40000 rows/s|
| 16 RCUs | 45 MiB/s | 80000 rows/s|

Note that all the performance values in this table are maximum performances. The performance values are for reference only and might vary in different scenarios.

TiDB Cloud measures full data migration in MiB/s. This unit indicates how much data (in MiB) per second is migrated by the Data Migration job.

TiDB Cloud measures incremental data migration in rows/s. This unit indicates the number of rows per second generated by incremental replication Data Manipulation Language (DML) statements. It also means if the upstream executes INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statements within 10000 rows about 1 second, the Data Migration job can replicate the 10000 rows to the downstream about 1 second.

## Price

The following table lists the price of TiDB Cloud for each Data Migration RCU:

| Cloud provider | Region                      | RCU price ($/hr) |
|----------------|-----------------------------|------------------|
| AWS            | Oregon (us-west-2)          |          $0.1307 |
| AWS            | N. Virginia (us-east-1)     |          $0.1307 |
| AWS            | Mumbai (ap-south-1)         |          $0.1393 |
| AWS            | Singapore (ap-southeast-1)  |          $0.1623 |
| AWS            | Tokyo (ap-northeast-1)      |          $0.1669 |
| AWS            | Frankfurt (eu-central-1)    |          $0.1564 |

The Data Migration job is in the same region as the target TiDB Cluster.

Note that if the source database and the TiDB cluster are not in the same region or not in the same availability zone (AZ), two additional traffic charges will be incurred: cross-region and cross-AZ traffic charges.

- If the source database and the TiDB cluster are not in the same region, cross-region traffic charges are incurred when the Data Migration job collecting data from the source database. In addition, if the Data Migration job and the TiDB cluster are not in the same AZ, cross-AZ traffic charges are also incurred when the Data Migration job writes data to the target TiDB cluster.
- If the source database and the TiDB cluster are in the same region but in different AZs, cross-AZ traffic charges are incurred when the Data Migration job collects data from the source database. In addition, cross-AZ traffic charges are incurred when the Data Migration job writes data to the target TiDB cluster.

The cross-region and cross-AZ traffic prices are the same as those for TiDB Cloud. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud Pricing Details](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud-pricing-details/).

## See also

- [Migrate from MySQL-Compatible Databases Using Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md)