tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md, before:

---
title: TiDB Lightning Monitoring
summary: Learn about the monitor configuration and monitoring metrics of TiDB Lightning.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning/','/docs/dev/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/monitor/']
---

# TiDB Lightning Monitoring

`tidb-lightning` supports metrics collection via [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/). This document introduces the monitor configuration and monitoring metrics of TiDB Lightning.

## Monitor configuration

- If TiDB Lightning is installed using TiDB Ansible, simply add the servers to the `[monitored_servers]` section in the `inventory.ini` file. Then the Prometheus server can collect their metrics.
- If TiDB Lightning is manually installed, follow the instructions below.

The metrics of `tidb-lightning` can be gathered directly by Prometheus as long as it is discovered. You can set the metrics port in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

```toml
[lightning]
# HTTP port for debugging and Prometheus metrics pulling (0 to disable)
pprof-port = 8289

...
```

and in `tikv-importer.toml`:

```toml
# Listening address of the status server.
status-server-address = '0.0.0.0:8286'
```

You need to configure Prometheus to make it discover the servers. For instance, you can directly add the server address to the `scrape_configs` section:

```yaml
...
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'tidb-lightning'
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['192.168.20.10:8289']
  - job_name: 'tikv-importer'
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['192.168.20.9:8286']
```

## Grafana dashboard

[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is a web interface to visualize Prometheus metrics as dashboards.

If TiDB Lightning is installed using TiDB Ansible, its dashboard is already installed.
Otherwise, the dashboard JSON can be imported from <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-ansible/master/scripts/lightning.json>.

### Row 1: Speed

![Panels in first row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-1.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Import speed | write from lightning | Speed of sending KVs from TiDB Lightning to TiKV Importer, which depends on each table's complexity |
| Import speed | upload to tikv | Total upload speed from TiKV Importer to all TiKV replicas |
| Chunk process duration | | Average time needed to completely encode one single data file |

Sometimes the import speed will drop to zero allowing other parts to catch up. This is normal.

### Row 2: Progress

![Panels in second row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-2.png)

| Panel | Description |
|:-----|:-----|
| Import progress | Percentage of data files encoded so far |
| Checksum progress | Percentage of tables are verified to be imported successfully |
| Failures | Number of failed tables and their point of failure, normally empty |

### Row 3: Resource

![Panels in third row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-3.png)

| Panel | Description |
|:-----|:-----|
| Memory usage | Amount of memory occupied by each service |
| Number of Lightning Goroutines | Number of running goroutines used by TiDB Lightning |
| CPU% | Number of logical CPU cores utilized by each service |

### Row 4: Quota

![Panels in fourth row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-4.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Idle workers | io | Number of unused `io-concurrency`, normally close to configured value (default 5), and close to 0 means the disk is too slow |
| Idle workers | closed-engine | Number of engines which is closed but not yet cleaned up, normally close to index + table-concurrency (default 8), and close to 0 means TiDB Lightning is faster than TiKV Importer, which will cause TiDB Lightning to stall |
| Idle workers | table | Number of unused `table-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of process |
| Idle workers | index | Number of unused `index-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of process |
| Idle workers | region | Number of unused `region-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of process |
| External resources | KV Encoder | Counts active KV encoders, normally the same as `region-concurrency` until the end of process |
| External resources | Importer Engines | Counts opened engine files, should never exceed the `max-open-engines` setting |

### Row 5: Read speed

![Panels in fifth row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-5.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Chunk parser read block duration | read block | Time taken to read one block of bytes to prepare for parsing |
| Chunk parser read block duration | apply worker | Time elapsed to wait for an idle io-concurrency |
| SQL process duration | row encode | Time taken to parse and encode a single row |
| SQL process duration | block deliver | Time taken to send a block of KV pairs to TiKV Importer |

If any of the duration is too high, it indicates that the disk used by TiDB Lightning is too slow or busy with I/O.

### Row 6: Storage

![Panels in sixth row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-6.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| SQL process rate | data deliver rate | Speed of delivery of data KV pairs to TiKV Importer |
| SQL process rate | index deliver rate | Speed of delivery of index KV pairs to TiKV Importer |
| SQL process rate | total deliver rate | The sum of two rates above |
| Total bytes | parser read size | Number of bytes being read by TiDB Lightning |
| Total bytes | data deliver size | Number of bytes of data KV pairs already delivered to TiKV Importer |
| Total bytes | index deliver size | Number of bytes of index KV pairs already delivered to TiKV Importer |
| Total bytes | storage_size / 3 | Total size occupied by the TiKV cluster, divided by 3 (the default number of replicas) |

### Row 7: Import speed

![Panels in seventh row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-7.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Delivery duration | Range delivery | Time taken to upload a range of KV pairs to the TiKV cluster |
| Delivery duration | SST delivery | Time taken to upload an SST file to the TiKV cluster |
| SST process duration | Split SST | Time taken to split the stream of KV pairs into SST files |
| SST process duration | SST upload | Time taken to upload an SST file |
| SST process duration | SST ingest | Time taken to ingest an uploaded SST file |
| SST process duration | SST size | File size of an SST file |

## Monitoring metrics

This section explains the monitoring metrics of `tikv-importer` and `tidb-lightning`, if you need to monitor other metrics not covered by the default Grafana dashboard.

### `tikv-importer`

Metrics provided by `tikv-importer` are listed under the namespace `tikv_import_*`.

- **`tikv_import_rpc_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the duration of an RPC action. Labels:

    - **request**: what kind of RPC is executed
        * `switch_mode` — switched a TiKV node to import/normal mode
        * `open_engine` — opened an engine file
        * `write_engine` — received data and written into an engine
        * `close_engine` — closed an engine file
        * `import_engine` — imported an engine file into the TiKV cluster
        * `cleanup_engine` — deleted an engine file
        * `compact_cluster` — explicitly compacted the TiKV cluster
        * `upload` — uploaded an SST file
        * `ingest` — ingested an SST file
        * `compact` — explicitly compacted a TiKV node
    - **result**: the execution result of the RPC
        * `ok`
        * `error`

- **`tikv_import_write_chunk_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the uncompressed size of a block of KV pairs received from Lightning.

- **`tikv_import_write_chunk_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to receive a block of KV pairs from Lightning.

- **`tikv_import_upload_chunk_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the compressed size of a chunk of SST file uploaded to TiKV.

- **`tikv_import_upload_chunk_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to upload a chunk of SST file to TiKV.

- **`tikv_import_range_delivery_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver a range of KV pairs into a `dispatch-job`.

- **`tikv_import_split_sst_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to split off a range from the engine file into a single SST file.

- **`tikv_import_sst_delivery_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver an SST file from a `dispatch-job` to an `ImportSSTJob`.

- **`tikv_import_sst_recv_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to receive an SST file from a `dispatch-job` in an `ImportSSTJob`.

- **`tikv_import_sst_upload_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to upload an SST file from an `ImportSSTJob` to a TiKV node.

- **`tikv_import_sst_chunk_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the compressed size of the SST file uploaded to a TiKV node.

- **`tikv_import_sst_ingest_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to ingest an SST file into TiKV.

- **`tikv_import_each_phase`** (Gauge)

    Indicates the running phase. Possible values are 1, meaning running inside the phase, and 0, meaning outside the phase. Labels:

    - **phase**: `prepare`/`import`

- **`tikv_import_wait_store_available_count`** (Counter)

    Counts the number of times a TiKV node is found to have insufficient space when uploading SST files. Labels:

    - **store_id**: The TiKV store ID.

### `tidb-lightning`

Metrics provided by `tidb-lightning` are listed under the namespace `lightning_*`.

- **`lightning_importer_engine`** (Counter)

    Counts open and closed engine files. Labels:

    - **type**:
        * `open`
        * `closed`

- **`lightning_idle_workers`** (Gauge)

    Counts idle workers. Labels:

    - **name**:
        * `table` — the remainder of `table-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of the process
        * `index` — the remainder of `index-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of the process
        * `region` — the remainder of `region-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of the process
        * `io` — the remainder of `io-concurrency`, normally close to configured value (default 5), and close to 0 means the disk is too slow
        * `closed-engine` — number of engines which have been closed but not yet cleaned up, normally close to index + table-concurrency (default 8).  A value close to 0 means TiDB Lightning is faster than TiKV Importer, which might cause TiDB Lightning to stall

- **`lightning_kv_encoder`** (Counter)

    Counts open and closed KV encoders. KV encoders are in-memory TiDB instances that convert SQL `INSERT` statements into KV pairs. The net values need to be bounded in a healthy situation. Labels:

    - **type**:
        * `open`
        * `closed`

* **`lightning_tables`** (Counter)

    Counts processed tables and their statuses. Labels:

    - **state**: the status of the table, indicating which phase should be completed
        * `pending` — not yet processed
        * `written` — all data encoded and sent
        * `closed` — all corresponding engine files closed
        * `imported` — all engine files have been imported into the target cluster
        * `altered_auto_inc` — AUTO_INCREMENT ID altered
        * `checksum` — checksum performed
        * `analyzed` — statistics analysis performed
        * `completed` — the table has been fully imported and verified
    - **result**: the result of the current phase
        * `success` — the phase completed successfully
        * `failure` — the phase failed (did not complete)

* **`lightning_engines`** (Counter)

    Counts number of engine files processed and their status. Labels:

    - **state**: the status of the engine, indicating which phase should be completed
        * `pending` — not yet processed
        * `written` — all data encoded and sent
        * `closed` — engine file closed
        * `imported` — the engine file has been imported into the target cluster
        * `completed` — the engine has been fully imported
    - **result**: the result of the current phase
        * `success` — the phase completed successfully
        * `failure` — the phase failed (did not complete)

- **`lightning_chunks`** (Counter)

    Counts number of chunks processed and their status. Labels:

    - **state**: a chunk's status, indicating which phase the chunk is in
        * `estimated` — (not a state) this value gives total number of chunks in current task
        * `pending` — loaded but not yet processed
        * `running` — data are being encoded and sent
        * `finished` — the entire chunk has been processed
        * `failed` — errors happened during processing

- **`lightning_import_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to import a table.

- **`lightning_row_read_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the size of a single SQL row.

- **`lightning_row_encode_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to encode a single SQL row into KV pairs.

- **`lightning_row_kv_deliver_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver a set of KV pairs corresponding to one single SQL row.

- **`lightning_block_deliver_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver a block of KV pairs to Importer.

- **`lightning_block_deliver_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the uncompressed size of a block of KV pairs delivered to Importer.

- **`lightning_chunk_parser_read_block_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed by the data file parser to read a block.

- **`lightning_checksum_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to compute the checksum of a table.

- **`lightning_apply_worker_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to acquire an idle worker (see also the `lightning_idle_workers` gauge). Labels:

    - **name**:
        * `table`
        * `index`
        * `region`
        * `io`
        * `closed-engine`

Commit message:

Remove all TiDB Ansible related contents from dev

tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning.md, after:

---
title: TiDB Lightning Monitoring
summary: Learn about the monitor configuration and monitoring metrics of TiDB Lightning.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/tidb-lightning/monitor-tidb-lightning/','/docs/dev/reference/tools/tidb-lightning/monitor/']
---

# TiDB Lightning Monitoring

`tidb-lightning` supports metrics collection via [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/). This document introduces the monitor configuration and monitoring metrics of TiDB Lightning.

## Monitor configuration

If TiDB Lightning is manually installed, follow the instructions below.

The metrics of `tidb-lightning` can be gathered directly by Prometheus as long as it is discovered. You can set the metrics port in `tidb-lightning.toml`:

```toml
[lightning]
# HTTP port for debugging and Prometheus metrics pulling (0 to disable)
pprof-port = 8289

...
```

and in `tikv-importer.toml`:

```toml
# Listening address of the status server.
status-server-address = '0.0.0.0:8286'
```

You need to configure Prometheus to make it discover the servers. For instance, you can directly add the server address to the `scrape_configs` section:

```yaml
...
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'tidb-lightning'
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['192.168.20.10:8289']
  - job_name: 'tikv-importer'
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['192.168.20.9:8286']
```

## Grafana dashboard

[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is a web interface to visualize Prometheus metrics as dashboards.

When you [deploy a TiDB cluster using TiUP](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md), if you have added Grafana and Prometheus in the topology configuration, a set of [Grafana + Prometheus monitoring platform](/tidb-monitoring-framework.md) is deployed simultaneously. In this situation, you must first import [the JSON file of the dashboard](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pingcap/tidb-ansible/master/scripts/lightning.json).

### Row 1: Speed

![Panels in first row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-1.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Import speed | write from lightning | Speed of sending KVs from TiDB Lightning to TiKV Importer, which depends on each table's complexity |
| Import speed | upload to tikv | Total upload speed from TiKV Importer to all TiKV replicas |
| Chunk process duration | | Average time needed to completely encode one single data file |

Sometimes the import speed will drop to zero allowing other parts to catch up. This is normal.

### Row 2: Progress

![Panels in second row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-2.png)

| Panel | Description |
|:-----|:-----|
| Import progress | Percentage of data files encoded so far |
| Checksum progress | Percentage of tables are verified to be imported successfully |
| Failures | Number of failed tables and their point of failure, normally empty |

### Row 3: Resource

![Panels in third row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-3.png)

| Panel | Description |
|:-----|:-----|
| Memory usage | Amount of memory occupied by each service |
| Number of Lightning Goroutines | Number of running goroutines used by TiDB Lightning |
| CPU% | Number of logical CPU cores utilized by each service |

### Row 4: Quota

![Panels in fourth row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-4.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Idle workers | io | Number of unused `io-concurrency`, normally close to configured value (default 5), and close to 0 means the disk is too slow |
| Idle workers | closed-engine | Number of engines which is closed but not yet cleaned up, normally close to index + table-concurrency (default 8), and close to 0 means TiDB Lightning is faster than TiKV Importer, which will cause TiDB Lightning to stall |
| Idle workers | table | Number of unused `table-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of process |
| Idle workers | index | Number of unused `index-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of process |
| Idle workers | region | Number of unused `region-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of process |
| External resources | KV Encoder | Counts active KV encoders, normally the same as `region-concurrency` until the end of process |
| External resources | Importer Engines | Counts opened engine files, should never exceed the `max-open-engines` setting |

### Row 5: Read speed

![Panels in fifth row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-5.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Chunk parser read block duration | read block | Time taken to read one block of bytes to prepare for parsing |
| Chunk parser read block duration | apply worker | Time elapsed to wait for an idle io-concurrency |
| SQL process duration | row encode | Time taken to parse and encode a single row |
| SQL process duration | block deliver | Time taken to send a block of KV pairs to TiKV Importer |

If any of the duration is too high, it indicates that the disk used by TiDB Lightning is too slow or busy with I/O.

### Row 6: Storage

![Panels in sixth row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-6.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| SQL process rate | data deliver rate | Speed of delivery of data KV pairs to TiKV Importer |
| SQL process rate | index deliver rate | Speed of delivery of index KV pairs to TiKV Importer |
| SQL process rate | total deliver rate | The sum of two rates above |
| Total bytes | parser read size | Number of bytes being read by TiDB Lightning |
| Total bytes | data deliver size | Number of bytes of data KV pairs already delivered to TiKV Importer |
| Total bytes | index deliver size | Number of bytes of index KV pairs already delivered to TiKV Importer |
| Total bytes | storage_size / 3 | Total size occupied by the TiKV cluster, divided by 3 (the default number of replicas) |

### Row 7: Import speed

![Panels in seventh row](/media/lightning-grafana-row-7.png)

| Panel | Series | Description |
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
| Delivery duration | Range delivery | Time taken to upload a range of KV pairs to the TiKV cluster |
| Delivery duration | SST delivery | Time taken to upload an SST file to the TiKV cluster |
| SST process duration | Split SST | Time taken to split the stream of KV pairs into SST files |
| SST process duration | SST upload | Time taken to upload an SST file |
| SST process duration | SST ingest | Time taken to ingest an uploaded SST file |
| SST process duration | SST size | File size of an SST file |

## Monitoring metrics

This section explains the monitoring metrics of `tikv-importer` and `tidb-lightning`, if you need to monitor other metrics not covered by the default Grafana dashboard.

### `tikv-importer`

Metrics provided by `tikv-importer` are listed under the namespace `tikv_import_*`.

- **`tikv_import_rpc_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the duration of an RPC action. Labels:

    - **request**: what kind of RPC is executed
        * `switch_mode` — switched a TiKV node to import/normal mode
        * `open_engine` — opened an engine file
        * `write_engine` — received data and written into an engine
        * `close_engine` — closed an engine file
        * `import_engine` — imported an engine file into the TiKV cluster
        * `cleanup_engine` — deleted an engine file
        * `compact_cluster` — explicitly compacted the TiKV cluster
        * `upload` — uploaded an SST file
        * `ingest` — ingested an SST file
        * `compact` — explicitly compacted a TiKV node
    - **result**: the execution result of the RPC
        * `ok`
        * `error`

- **`tikv_import_write_chunk_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the uncompressed size of a block of KV pairs received from Lightning.

- **`tikv_import_write_chunk_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to receive a block of KV pairs from Lightning.

- **`tikv_import_upload_chunk_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the compressed size of a chunk of SST file uploaded to TiKV.

- **`tikv_import_upload_chunk_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to upload a chunk of SST file to TiKV.

- **`tikv_import_range_delivery_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver a range of KV pairs into a `dispatch-job`.

- **`tikv_import_split_sst_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to split off a range from the engine file into a single SST file.

- **`tikv_import_sst_delivery_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver an SST file from a `dispatch-job` to an `ImportSSTJob`.

- **`tikv_import_sst_recv_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to receive an SST file from a `dispatch-job` in an `ImportSSTJob`.

- **`tikv_import_sst_upload_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to upload an SST file from an `ImportSSTJob` to a TiKV node.

- **`tikv_import_sst_chunk_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the compressed size of the SST file uploaded to a TiKV node.

- **`tikv_import_sst_ingest_duration`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to ingest an SST file into TiKV.

- **`tikv_import_each_phase`** (Gauge)

    Indicates the running phase. Possible values are 1, meaning running inside the phase, and 0, meaning outside the phase. Labels:

    - **phase**: `prepare`/`import`

- **`tikv_import_wait_store_available_count`** (Counter)

    Counts the number of times a TiKV node is found to have insufficient space when uploading SST files. Labels:

    - **store_id**: The TiKV store ID.

### `tidb-lightning`

Metrics provided by `tidb-lightning` are listed under the namespace `lightning_*`.

- **`lightning_importer_engine`** (Counter)

    Counts open and closed engine files. Labels:

    - **type**:
        * `open`
        * `closed`

- **`lightning_idle_workers`** (Gauge)

    Counts idle workers. Labels:

    - **name**:
        * `table` — the remainder of `table-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of the process
        * `index` — the remainder of `index-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of the process
        * `region` — the remainder of `region-concurrency`, normally 0 until the end of the process
        * `io` — the remainder of `io-concurrency`, normally close to configured value (default 5), and close to 0 means the disk is too slow
        * `closed-engine` — number of engines which have been closed but not yet cleaned up, normally close to index + table-concurrency (default 8).  A value close to 0 means TiDB Lightning is faster than TiKV Importer, which might cause TiDB Lightning to stall

- **`lightning_kv_encoder`** (Counter)

    Counts open and closed KV encoders. KV encoders are in-memory TiDB instances that convert SQL `INSERT` statements into KV pairs. The net values need to be bounded in a healthy situation. Labels:

    - **type**:
        * `open`
        * `closed`

* **`lightning_tables`** (Counter)

    Counts processed tables and their statuses. Labels:

    - **state**: the status of the table, indicating which phase should be completed
        * `pending` — not yet processed
        * `written` — all data encoded and sent
        * `closed` — all corresponding engine files closed
        * `imported` — all engine files have been imported into the target cluster
        * `altered_auto_inc` — AUTO_INCREMENT ID altered
        * `checksum` — checksum performed
        * `analyzed` — statistics analysis performed
        * `completed` — the table has been fully imported and verified
    - **result**: the result of the current phase
        * `success` — the phase completed successfully
        * `failure` — the phase failed (did not complete)

* **`lightning_engines`** (Counter)

    Counts number of engine files processed and their status. Labels:

    - **state**: the status of the engine, indicating which phase should be completed
        * `pending` — not yet processed
        * `written` — all data encoded and sent
        * `closed` — engine file closed
        * `imported` — the engine file has been imported into the target cluster
        * `completed` — the engine has been fully imported
    - **result**: the result of the current phase
        * `success` — the phase completed successfully
        * `failure` — the phase failed (did not complete)

- **`lightning_chunks`** (Counter)

    Counts number of chunks processed and their status. Labels:

    - **state**: a chunk's status, indicating which phase the chunk is in
        * `estimated` — (not a state) this value gives total number of chunks in current task
        * `pending` — loaded but not yet processed
        * `running` — data are being encoded and sent
        * `finished` — the entire chunk has been processed
        * `failed` — errors happened during processing

- **`lightning_import_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to import a table.

- **`lightning_row_read_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the size of a single SQL row.

- **`lightning_row_encode_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to encode a single SQL row into KV pairs.

- **`lightning_row_kv_deliver_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver a set of KV pairs corresponding to one single SQL row.

- **`lightning_block_deliver_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to deliver a block of KV pairs to Importer.

- **`lightning_block_deliver_bytes`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the uncompressed size of a block of KV pairs delivered to Importer.

- **`lightning_chunk_parser_read_block_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed by the data file parser to read a block.

- **`lightning_checksum_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to compute the checksum of a table.

- **`lightning_apply_worker_seconds`** (Histogram)

    Bucketed histogram for the time needed to acquire an idle worker (see also the `lightning_idle_workers` gauge). Labels:

    - **name**:
        * `table`
        * `index`
        * `region`
        * `io`
        * `closed-engine`
