sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-sequence.md, before:

---
title: SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-sequence/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/show-create-sequence/']
---

# SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE

The `SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE` shows the detailed information of a sequence, which is similar to `SHOW CREATE TABLE`.

## Synopsis

**ShowCreateSequenceStmt:**

![ShowCreateSequenceStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowCreateSequenceStmt.png)

**TableName:**

![TableName](/media/sqlgram/TableName.png)

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE seq;
```

```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.03 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE seq;
```

```
+-------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Table | Create Table                                                                                                               |
+-------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| seq   | CREATE SEQUENCE `seq` start with 1 minvalue 1 maxvalue 9223372036854775806 increment by 1 cache 1000 nocycle ENGINE=InnoDB |
+-------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

Currently, MySQL does not have the sequence option. The TiDB sequence is borrowed from MariaDB. Except for the `SETVAL` function, all other functions have the same progressions with those functions of MariaDB.

## See also

* [CREATE SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md)
* [DROP SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-sequence.md)

Commit message:

Update sequences, use compatibility notes

sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-sequence.md, after:

---
title: SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-sequence/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/show-create-sequence/']
---

# SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE

The `SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE` shows the detailed information of a sequence, which is similar to `SHOW CREATE TABLE`.

## Synopsis

**ShowCreateSequenceStmt:**

![ShowCreateSequenceStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowCreateSequenceStmt.png)

**TableName:**

![TableName](/media/sqlgram/TableName.png)

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE seq;
```

```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.03 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE seq;
```

```
+-------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Table | Create Table                                                                                                               |
+-------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| seq   | CREATE SEQUENCE `seq` start with 1 minvalue 1 maxvalue 9223372036854775806 increment by 1 cache 1000 nocycle ENGINE=InnoDB |
+-------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension. The implementation is modeled on sequences available in MariaDB.

## See also

* [CREATE SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md)
* [DROP SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-sequence.md)
