sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins.md, before:

---
title: SHOW PLUGINS
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW PLUGINS for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins/']
---

# SHOW PLUGINS

`SHOW PLUGINS` shows all plugins installed in TiDB, including each plugin's status and version information.

## Synopsis

**ShowStmt:**

![ShowStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowStmt.png)

**ShowTargetFilterable:**

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW PLUGINS;
```

```
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| Name  | Status       | Type  | Library                     | License | Version |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| audit | Ready-enable | Audit | /tmp/tidb/plugin/audit-1.so |         | 1       |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
1 row in set (0.000 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW PLUGINS LIKE 'a%';
```

```
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| Name  | Status       | Type  | Library                     | License | Version |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| audit | Ready-enable | Audit | /tmp/tidb/plugin/audit-1.so |         | 1       |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
1 row in set (0.000 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

The `SHOW PLUGINS` statement in TiDB is fully compatible with MySQL. If you find any compatibility differences, [report a bug](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/support).

Commit message:

This is an automated cherry-pick of #14674
Signed-off-by: ti-chi-bot <ti-community-prow-bot@tidb.io>

sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins.md, after:

---
title: SHOW PLUGINS
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW PLUGINS for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-plugins/']
---

# SHOW PLUGINS

`SHOW PLUGINS` shows all plugins installed in TiDB, including each plugin's status and version information.

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is not available on [TiDB Serverless](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/select-cluster-tier#tidb-serverless) clusters.

## Synopsis

**ShowStmt:**

![ShowStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowStmt.png)

**ShowTargetFilterable:**

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW PLUGINS;
```

```
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| Name  | Status       | Type  | Library                     | License | Version |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| audit | Ready-enable | Audit | /tmp/tidb/plugin/audit-1.so |         | 1       |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
1 row in set (0.000 sec)
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW PLUGINS LIKE 'a%';
```

```
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| Name  | Status       | Type  | Library                     | License | Version |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
| audit | Ready-enable | Audit | /tmp/tidb/plugin/audit-1.so |         | 1       |
+-------+--------------+-------+-----------------------------+---------+---------+
1 row in set (0.000 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

The `SHOW PLUGINS` statement in TiDB is fully compatible with MySQL. If you find any compatibility differences, [report a bug](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/support).
