sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-placement-policy.md, before:

---
title: ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY
summary: The usage of ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY in TiDB.
---

# ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY

`ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY` is used to modify existing placement policies that have previously been created. All the tables and partitions which use the placement policy will automatically be updated.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
AlterPolicyStmt ::=
    "ALTER" "PLACEMENT" "POLICY" IfExists PolicyName PlacementOptionList

PolicyName ::=
	Identifier

PlacementOptionList ::=
	DirectPlacementOption
|	PlacementOptionList DirectPlacementOption
|	PlacementOptionList ',' DirectPlacementOption

DirectPlacementOption ::=
	"PRIMARY_REGION" EqOpt stringLit
|	"REGIONS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"FOLLOWERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|	"VOTERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|	"LEARNERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|	"SCHEDULE" EqOpt stringLit
|	"CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"LEADER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"FOLLOWER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"VOTER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"LEARNER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
```

## Examples

> **Note:**
>
> See [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md) to see which regions are available in your cluster.
> If  you do not see any available, your TiKV installation might not have labels set correctly.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1 PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1";
ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY p1 PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1,us-west-2" FOLLOWERS=4;
SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1\G
```

```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)

*************************** 1. row ***************************
       Policy: p1
Create Policy: CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY `p1` PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1,us-west-2" FOLLOWERS=4
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [Placement Rules](/placement-rules.md)
* [SHOW PLACEMENT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md)
* [CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-placement-policy.md)
* [DROP PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-placement-policy.md)

Commit message:

Incorporate feedback, add placement-checks sysvar

sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-placement-policy.md, after:

---
title: ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY
summary: The usage of ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY in TiDB.
---

# ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY

> **Warning:**
>
> Placement Rules in SQL is an experimental feature. Syntax may change before its final release, and there may be bugs.
> If you understand the risks, run `SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_alter_placement = 1;` to enable this experiment.


`ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY` is used to modify existing placement policies that have previously been created. All the tables and partitions which use the placement policy will automatically be updated.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
AlterPolicyStmt ::=
    "ALTER" "PLACEMENT" "POLICY" IfExists PolicyName PlacementOptionList

PolicyName ::=
	Identifier

PlacementOptionList ::=
	DirectPlacementOption
|	PlacementOptionList DirectPlacementOption
|	PlacementOptionList ',' DirectPlacementOption

DirectPlacementOption ::=
	"PRIMARY_REGION" EqOpt stringLit
|	"REGIONS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"FOLLOWERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|	"VOTERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|	"LEARNERS" EqOpt LengthNum
|	"SCHEDULE" EqOpt stringLit
|	"CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"LEADER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"FOLLOWER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"VOTER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
|	"LEARNER_CONSTRAINTS" EqOpt stringLit
```

## Examples

> **Note:**
>
> See [`SHOW PLACEMENT LABELS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement-labels.md) to see which regions are available in your cluster.
> If  you do not see any available, your TiKV installation might not have labels set correctly.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1 PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1";
ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY p1 PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1,us-west-2" FOLLOWERS=4;
SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1\G
```

```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)

*************************** 1. row ***************************
       Policy: p1
Create Policy: CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY `p1` PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1,us-west-2" FOLLOWERS=4
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [Placement Rules](/placement-rules.md)
* [SHOW PLACEMENT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md)
* [CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-placement-policy.md)
* [DROP PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-placement-policy.md)
