sql-statements/sql-statement-begin.md, before:

---
title: BEGIN | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of BEGIN for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-begin/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/begin/']
---

# BEGIN

This statement starts a new transaction inside of TiDB. It is similar to the statements `START TRANSACTION` and `SET autocommit=0`.

In the absence of a `BEGIN` statement, every statement will by default autocommit in its own transaction. This behavior ensures MySQL compatibility.

## Synopsis

**BeginTransactionStmt:**

![BeginTransactionStmt](/media/sqlgram/BeginTransactionStmt.png)

## Examples

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1 (a int NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.12 sec)

mysql> BEGIN;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1);
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> COMMIT;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is understood to be fully compatible with MySQL. Any compatibility differences should be [reported via an issue](/report-issue.md) on GitHub.

## See also

* [COMMIT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md)
* [ROLLBACK](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rollback.md)
* [START TRANSACTION](/sql-statements/sql-statement-start-transaction.md)

Commit message:

sql-statement: improve consistency, fix small errors (#3663)
* sql-statement: improve consistency, fix small errors (#3585)

* sql-statment: improve consistency, fix small errors

* Update sequences, use compatibility notes

* Fix COMMIT statement

* Address PR feedback

* Be more careful with default language.

* Address PR feedback

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-begin.md

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>

* Update report bug link per reviewer

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update system-variables.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>
Co-authored-by: ti-srebot <66930949+ti-srebot@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address PR feedback

* Address PR feedback

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-show-collation.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>
Co-authored-by: ti-srebot <66930949+ti-srebot@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kolbe Kegel <kolbe@pingcap.com>

sql-statements/sql-statement-begin.md, after:

---
title: BEGIN | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of BEGIN for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-begin/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/begin/']
---

# BEGIN

This statement starts a new transaction inside of TiDB. It is similar to the statements `START TRANSACTION` and `SET autocommit=0`.

In the absence of a `BEGIN` statement, every statement will by default autocommit in its own transaction. This behavior ensures MySQL compatibility.

## Synopsis

**BeginTransactionStmt:**

![BeginTransactionStmt](/media/sqlgram/BeginTransactionStmt.png)

## Examples

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1 (a int NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.12 sec)

mysql> BEGIN;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1);
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> COMMIT;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

TiDB supports the syntax extension of `BEGIN PESSMISTIC` or `BEGIN OPTIMISTIC`. This enables you to override the default transactional model for your transaction.

## See also

* [COMMIT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md)
* [ROLLBACK](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rollback.md)
* [START TRANSACTION](/sql-statements/sql-statement-start-transaction.md)
