sql-statements/sql-statement-show-pump-status.md, before:

---
title: SHOW PUMP STATUS
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW PUMP STATUS for the TiDB database.
---

# SHOW PUMP STATUS

The `SHOW PUMP STATUS` statement displays the status information for all Pump nodes in the cluster.

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW PUMP STATUS;
```

```sql
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
| NodeID |     Address    | State  |   Max_Commit_Ts    |    Update_Time      |
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
| pump1  | 127.0.0.1:8250 | Online | 408553768673342237 | 2019-05-01 00:00:01 |
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
| pump2  | 127.0.0.2:8250 | Online | 408553768673342335 | 2019-05-01 00:00:02 |
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [SHOW DRAINER STATUS](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-drainer-status.md)
* [CHANGE PUMP STATUS](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-pump.md)
* [CHANGE DRAINER STATUS](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-drainer.md)

Commit message:

cloud: update the TiDB Cloud support info in TiDB SQL docs (#14674)

sql-statements/sql-statement-show-pump-status.md, after:

---
title: SHOW PUMP STATUS
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW PUMP STATUS for the TiDB database.
---

# SHOW PUMP STATUS

The `SHOW PUMP STATUS` statement displays the status information for all Pump nodes in the cluster.

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is only applicable to TiDB Self-Hosted and not available on [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/).

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW PUMP STATUS;
```

```sql
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
| NodeID |     Address    | State  |   Max_Commit_Ts    |    Update_Time      |
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
| pump1  | 127.0.0.1:8250 | Online | 408553768673342237 | 2019-05-01 00:00:01 |
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
| pump2  | 127.0.0.2:8250 | Online | 408553768673342335 | 2019-05-01 00:00:02 |
+--------|----------------|--------|--------------------|---------------------|
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [SHOW DRAINER STATUS](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-drainer-status.md)
* [CHANGE PUMP STATUS](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-pump.md)
* [CHANGE DRAINER STATUS](/sql-statements/sql-statement-change-drainer.md)
