sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-database.md, before:

---
title: ALTER DATABASE | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of ALTER DATABASE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-database/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/alter-database/']
---

# ALTER DATABASE

`ALTER DATABASE` is used to specify or modify the default character set and collation of the current database. `ALTER SCHEMA` has the same effect as `ALTER DATABASE`.

## Examples

```sql
ALTER {DATABASE | SCHEMA} [db_name]
    alter_specification ...
alter_specification:
    [DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET [=] charset_name
  | [DEFAULT] COLLATE [=] collation_name
```

The `alter_specification` option specifies the `CHARACTER SET` and `COLLATE` of a specified database. Currently, TiDB only supports some character sets and collations. See [Character Set Support](/character-set-and-collation.md) for details.

## See also

* [CREATE DATABASE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-database.md)
* [SHOW DATABASES](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-databases.md)

Commit message:

sql-statement: improve consistency, fix small errors (#3663)
* sql-statement: improve consistency, fix small errors (#3585)

* sql-statment: improve consistency, fix small errors

* Update sequences, use compatibility notes

* Fix COMMIT statement

* Address PR feedback

* Be more careful with default language.

* Address PR feedback

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-begin.md

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>

* Update report bug link per reviewer

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update system-variables.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>
Co-authored-by: ti-srebot <66930949+ti-srebot@users.noreply.github.com>

* Address PR feedback

* Address PR feedback

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-show-collation.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>
Co-authored-by: ti-srebot <66930949+ti-srebot@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kolbe Kegel <kolbe@pingcap.com>

sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-database.md, after:

---
title: ALTER DATABASE | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of ALTER DATABASE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-database/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/alter-database/']
---

# ALTER DATABASE

`ALTER DATABASE` is used to specify or modify the default character set and collation of the current database. `ALTER SCHEMA` has the same effect as `ALTER DATABASE`.

## Examples

```sql
ALTER {DATABASE | SCHEMA} [db_name]
    alter_specification ...
alter_specification:
    [DEFAULT] CHARACTER SET [=] charset_name
  | [DEFAULT] COLLATE [=] collation_name
```

The `alter_specification` option specifies the `CHARACTER SET` and `COLLATE` of a specified database. Currently, TiDB only supports some character sets and collations. See [Character Set Support](/character-set-and-collation.md) for details.

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is understood to be fully compatible with MySQL. Any compatibility differences should be [reported via an issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new/choose) on GitHub.

## See also

* [CREATE DATABASE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-database.md)
* [SHOW DATABASES](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-databases.md)
