sql-statements/sql-statement-show-config.md, before:

---
title: SHOW CONFIG
summary: Overview of the use of SHOW CONFIG in the TiDB database
---

# SHOW CONFIG

The `SHOW CONFIG` statement is used to show the current configuration of various components of TiDB. Note that the configuration and system variables act on different dimensions and should not be mixed up. If you want to obtain the system variable information, use the [SHOW VARIABLES](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-variables.md) syntax.

## Synopsis

**ShowStmt:**

![ShowStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowStmt.png)

**ShowTargetFilterable:**

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

## Examples

Show all configurations:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CONFIG;
```

```
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type | Instance       | Name                                            | Value                                                               |
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | advertise-address                               | 127.0.0.1                                                           |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.binlog-socket                            |                                                                     |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.enable                                   | false                                                               |
...
120 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

Show the configuration where the `type` is `tidb`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CONFIG WHERE type = 'tidb' AND name = 'advertise-address';
```

```
+------+----------------+-------------------+-----------+
| Type | Instance       | Name              | Value     |
+------+----------------+-------------------+-----------+
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | advertise-address | 127.0.0.1 |
+------+----------------+-------------------+-----------+
1 row in set (0.05 sec)
```

You can also use the `LIKE` clause to show the configuration where the `type` is `tidb`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CONFIG LIKE 'tidb';
```

```
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type | Instance       | Name                                            | Value                                                               |
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | advertise-address                               | 127.0.0.1                                                           |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.binlog-socket                            |                                                                     |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.enable                                   | false                                                               |
...
40 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [SHOW VARIABLES](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-variables.md)

Commit message:

cloud: update the TiDB Cloud support info in TiDB SQL docs (#14674)

sql-statements/sql-statement-show-config.md, after:

---
title: SHOW CONFIG
summary: Overview of the use of SHOW CONFIG in the TiDB database
---

# SHOW CONFIG

The `SHOW CONFIG` statement is used to show the current configuration of various components of TiDB. Note that the configuration and system variables act on different dimensions and should not be mixed up. If you want to obtain the system variable information, use the [SHOW VARIABLES](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-variables.md) syntax.

> **Note:**
>
> This feature is only applicable to TiDB Self-Hosted and not available on [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/). 

## Synopsis

**ShowStmt:**

![ShowStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowStmt.png)

**ShowTargetFilterable:**

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

## Examples

Show all configurations:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CONFIG;
```

```
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type | Instance       | Name                                            | Value                                                               |
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | advertise-address                               | 127.0.0.1                                                           |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.binlog-socket                            |                                                                     |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.enable                                   | false                                                               |
...
120 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

Show the configuration where the `type` is `tidb`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CONFIG WHERE type = 'tidb' AND name = 'advertise-address';
```

```
+------+----------------+-------------------+-----------+
| Type | Instance       | Name              | Value     |
+------+----------------+-------------------+-----------+
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | advertise-address | 127.0.0.1 |
+------+----------------+-------------------+-----------+
1 row in set (0.05 sec)
```

You can also use the `LIKE` clause to show the configuration where the `type` is `tidb`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW CONFIG LIKE 'tidb';
```

```
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type | Instance       | Name                                            | Value                                                               |
+------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | advertise-address                               | 127.0.0.1                                                           |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.binlog-socket                            |                                                                     |
| tidb | 127.0.0.1:4000 | binlog.enable                                   | false                                                               |
...
40 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [SHOW VARIABLES](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-variables.md)
