sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-placement-policy.md, before:

---
title: SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY
summary: The usage of SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY in TiDB.
---

# SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY

`SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` is used to show the definition of a placement policy. This can be used to see the current definition of a placement policy and recreate it in another TiDB cluster.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
"SHOW" "CREATE" "PLACEMENT" "POLICY" PolicyName

PolicyName ::= 
	Identifier
```

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1 PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1" FOLLOWERS=4;
CREATE TABLE t1 (a INT) PLACEMENT POLICY=p1;
SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1\G
```

```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)

*************************** 1. row ***************************
       Policy: p1
Create Policy: CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY `p1` PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1" FOLLOWERS=4
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [Placement Rules](/placement-rules.md)
* [SHOW PLACEMENT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md)
* [CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-placement-policy.md)
* [ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-placement-policy.md)
* [DROP PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-placement-policy.md)

Commit message:

Incorporate feedback, add placement-checks sysvar

sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-placement-policy.md, after:

---
title: SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY
summary: The usage of SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY in TiDB.
---

# SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY

> **Warning:**
>
> Placement Rules in SQL is an experimental feature. Syntax may change before its final release, and there may be bugs.
> If you understand the risks, run `SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_alter_placement = 1;` to enable this experiment.

`SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` is used to show the definition of a placement policy. This can be used to see the current definition of a placement policy and recreate it in another TiDB cluster.

## Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
"SHOW" "CREATE" "PLACEMENT" "POLICY" PolicyName

PolicyName ::= 
	Identifier
```

## Examples

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1 PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1" FOLLOWERS=4;
CREATE TABLE t1 (a INT) PLACEMENT POLICY=p1;
SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY p1\G
```

```
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.08 sec)

Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.10 sec)

*************************** 1. row ***************************
       Policy: p1
Create Policy: CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY `p1` PRIMARY_REGION="us-east-1" REGIONS="us-east-1,us-west-1" FOLLOWERS=4
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

* [Placement Rules](/placement-rules.md)
* [SHOW PLACEMENT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-placement.md)
* [CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-placement-policy.md)
* [ALTER PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-placement-policy.md)
* [DROP PLACEMENT POLICY](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-placement-policy.md)
