sql-statements/sql-statement-show-collation.md, before:

---
title: SHOW COLLATION | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW COLLATION for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-collation/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/show-collation/']
---

# SHOW COLLATION

This statement provides a static list of collations, and is included to provide compatibility with MySQL client libraries.

> **Note:** TiDB currently only supports binary collations.

## Synopsis

**ShowStmt:**

![ShowStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowStmt.png)

**ShowTargetFilterable:**

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

## Examples

```sql
mysql> SHOW COLLATION;
+--------------------------+----------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| Collation                | Charset  | Id   | Default | Compiled | Sortlen |
+--------------------------+----------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| big5_chinese_ci          | big5     |    1 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_czech_cs          | latin2   |    2 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| dec8_swedish_ci          | dec8     |    3 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp850_general_ci         | cp850    |    4 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_german1_ci        | latin1   |    5 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hp8_english_ci           | hp8      |    6 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8r_general_ci         | koi8r    |    7 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_swedish_ci        | latin1   |    8 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_general_ci        | latin2   |    9 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| swe7_swedish_ci          | swe7     |   10 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| ascii_general_ci         | ascii    |   11 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| ujis_japanese_ci         | ujis     |   12 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| sjis_japanese_ci         | sjis     |   13 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_bulgarian_ci      | cp1251   |   14 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_danish_ci         | latin1   |   15 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hebrew_general_ci        | hebrew   |   16 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| tis620_thai_ci           | tis620   |   18 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| euckr_korean_ci          | euckr    |   19 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_estonian_cs       | latin7   |   20 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_hungarian_ci      | latin2   |   21 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8u_general_ci         | koi8u    |   22 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_ukrainian_ci      | cp1251   |   23 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gb2312_chinese_ci        | gb2312   |   24 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| greek_general_ci         | greek    |   25 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_general_ci        | cp1250   |   26 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_croatian_ci       | latin2   |   27 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gbk_chinese_ci           | gbk      |   28 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1257_lithuanian_ci     | cp1257   |   29 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin5_turkish_ci        | latin5   |   30 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_german2_ci        | latin1   |   31 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| armscii8_general_ci      | armscii8 |   32 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_general_ci          | utf8     |   33 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_czech_cs          | cp1250   |   34 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_general_ci          | ucs2     |   35 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp866_general_ci         | cp866    |   36 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| keybcs2_general_ci       | keybcs2  |   37 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| macce_general_ci         | macce    |   38 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| macroman_general_ci      | macroman |   39 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp852_general_ci         | cp852    |   40 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_general_ci        | latin7   |   41 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_general_cs        | latin7   |   42 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| macce_bin                | macce    |   43 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_croatian_ci       | cp1250   |   44 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_general_ci       | utf8mb4  |   45 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_bin              | utf8mb4  |   46 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_bin               | latin1   |   47 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_general_ci        | latin1   |   48 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_general_cs        | latin1   |   49 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_bin               | cp1251   |   50 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_general_ci        | cp1251   |   51 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_general_cs        | cp1251   |   52 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| macroman_bin             | macroman |   53 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_general_ci         | utf16    |   54 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_bin                | utf16    |   55 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16le_general_ci       | utf16le  |   56 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1256_general_ci        | cp1256   |   57 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1257_bin               | cp1257   |   58 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1257_general_ci        | cp1257   |   59 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_general_ci         | utf32    |   60 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_bin                | utf32    |   61 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16le_bin              | utf16le  |   62 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| binary                   | binary   |   63 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| armscii8_bin             | armscii8 |   64 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ascii_bin                | ascii    |   65 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_bin               | cp1250   |   66 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1256_bin               | cp1256   |   67 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp866_bin                | cp866    |   68 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| dec8_bin                 | dec8     |   69 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| greek_bin                | greek    |   70 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hebrew_bin               | hebrew   |   71 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hp8_bin                  | hp8      |   72 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| keybcs2_bin              | keybcs2  |   73 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8r_bin                | koi8r    |   74 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8u_bin                | koi8u    |   75 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_bin               | latin2   |   77 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin5_bin               | latin5   |   78 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_bin               | latin7   |   79 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp850_bin                | cp850    |   80 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp852_bin                | cp852    |   81 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| swe7_bin                 | swe7     |   82 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_bin                 | utf8     |   83 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| big5_bin                 | big5     |   84 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| euckr_bin                | euckr    |   85 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gb2312_bin               | gb2312   |   86 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gbk_bin                  | gbk      |   87 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| sjis_bin                 | sjis     |   88 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| tis620_bin               | tis620   |   89 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_bin                 | ucs2     |   90 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ujis_bin                 | ujis     |   91 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| geostd8_general_ci       | geostd8  |   92 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| geostd8_bin              | geostd8  |   93 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_spanish_ci        | latin1   |   94 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp932_japanese_ci        | cp932    |   95 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp932_bin                | cp932    |   96 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| eucjpms_japanese_ci      | eucjpms  |   97 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| eucjpms_bin              | eucjpms  |   98 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_polish_ci         | cp1250   |   99 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_unicode_ci         | utf16    |  101 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_icelandic_ci       | utf16    |  102 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_latvian_ci         | utf16    |  103 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_romanian_ci        | utf16    |  104 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_slovenian_ci       | utf16    |  105 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_polish_ci          | utf16    |  106 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_estonian_ci        | utf16    |  107 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_spanish_ci         | utf16    |  108 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_swedish_ci         | utf16    |  109 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_turkish_ci         | utf16    |  110 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_czech_ci           | utf16    |  111 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_danish_ci          | utf16    |  112 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_lithuanian_ci      | utf16    |  113 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_slovak_ci          | utf16    |  114 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_spanish2_ci        | utf16    |  115 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_roman_ci           | utf16    |  116 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_persian_ci         | utf16    |  117 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_esperanto_ci       | utf16    |  118 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_hungarian_ci       | utf16    |  119 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_sinhala_ci         | utf16    |  120 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_german2_ci         | utf16    |  121 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_croatian_ci        | utf16    |  122 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_unicode_520_ci     | utf16    |  123 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_vietnamese_ci      | utf16    |  124 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_unicode_ci          | ucs2     |  128 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_icelandic_ci        | ucs2     |  129 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_latvian_ci          | ucs2     |  130 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_romanian_ci         | ucs2     |  131 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_slovenian_ci        | ucs2     |  132 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_polish_ci           | ucs2     |  133 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_estonian_ci         | ucs2     |  134 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_spanish_ci          | ucs2     |  135 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_swedish_ci          | ucs2     |  136 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_turkish_ci          | ucs2     |  137 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_czech_ci            | ucs2     |  138 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_danish_ci           | ucs2     |  139 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_lithuanian_ci       | ucs2     |  140 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_slovak_ci           | ucs2     |  141 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_spanish2_ci         | ucs2     |  142 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_roman_ci            | ucs2     |  143 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_persian_ci          | ucs2     |  144 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_esperanto_ci        | ucs2     |  145 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_hungarian_ci        | ucs2     |  146 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_sinhala_ci          | ucs2     |  147 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_german2_ci          | ucs2     |  148 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_croatian_ci         | ucs2     |  149 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_unicode_520_ci      | ucs2     |  150 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_vietnamese_ci       | ucs2     |  151 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_general_mysql500_ci | ucs2     |  159 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_unicode_ci         | utf32    |  160 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_icelandic_ci       | utf32    |  161 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_latvian_ci         | utf32    |  162 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_romanian_ci        | utf32    |  163 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_slovenian_ci       | utf32    |  164 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_polish_ci          | utf32    |  165 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_estonian_ci        | utf32    |  166 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_spanish_ci         | utf32    |  167 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_swedish_ci         | utf32    |  168 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_turkish_ci         | utf32    |  169 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_czech_ci           | utf32    |  170 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_danish_ci          | utf32    |  171 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_lithuanian_ci      | utf32    |  172 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_slovak_ci          | utf32    |  173 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_spanish2_ci        | utf32    |  174 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_roman_ci           | utf32    |  175 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_persian_ci         | utf32    |  176 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_esperanto_ci       | utf32    |  177 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_hungarian_ci       | utf32    |  178 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_sinhala_ci         | utf32    |  179 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_german2_ci         | utf32    |  180 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_croatian_ci        | utf32    |  181 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_unicode_520_ci     | utf32    |  182 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_vietnamese_ci      | utf32    |  183 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_unicode_ci          | utf8     |  192 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_icelandic_ci        | utf8     |  193 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_latvian_ci          | utf8     |  194 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_romanian_ci         | utf8     |  195 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_slovenian_ci        | utf8     |  196 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_polish_ci           | utf8     |  197 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_estonian_ci         | utf8     |  198 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_spanish_ci          | utf8     |  199 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_swedish_ci          | utf8     |  200 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_turkish_ci          | utf8     |  201 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_czech_ci            | utf8     |  202 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_danish_ci           | utf8     |  203 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_lithuanian_ci       | utf8     |  204 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_slovak_ci           | utf8     |  205 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_spanish2_ci         | utf8     |  206 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_roman_ci            | utf8     |  207 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_persian_ci          | utf8     |  208 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_esperanto_ci        | utf8     |  209 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_hungarian_ci        | utf8     |  210 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_sinhala_ci          | utf8     |  211 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_german2_ci          | utf8     |  212 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_croatian_ci         | utf8     |  213 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_unicode_520_ci      | utf8     |  214 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_vietnamese_ci       | utf8     |  215 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_general_mysql500_ci | utf8     |  223 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_unicode_ci       | utf8mb4  |  224 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_icelandic_ci     | utf8mb4  |  225 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_latvian_ci       | utf8mb4  |  226 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_romanian_ci      | utf8mb4  |  227 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_slovenian_ci     | utf8mb4  |  228 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_polish_ci        | utf8mb4  |  229 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_estonian_ci      | utf8mb4  |  230 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_spanish_ci       | utf8mb4  |  231 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_swedish_ci       | utf8mb4  |  232 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_turkish_ci       | utf8mb4  |  233 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_czech_ci         | utf8mb4  |  234 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_danish_ci        | utf8mb4  |  235 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_lithuanian_ci    | utf8mb4  |  236 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_slovak_ci        | utf8mb4  |  237 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_spanish2_ci      | utf8mb4  |  238 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_roman_ci         | utf8mb4  |  239 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_persian_ci       | utf8mb4  |  240 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_esperanto_ci     | utf8mb4  |  241 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_hungarian_ci     | utf8mb4  |  242 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_sinhala_ci       | utf8mb4  |  243 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_german2_ci       | utf8mb4  |  244 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_croatian_ci      | utf8mb4  |  245 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci   | utf8mb4  |  246 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_vietnamese_ci    | utf8mb4  |  247 |         | Yes      |       1 |
+--------------------------+----------+------+---------+----------+---------+
219 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

TiDB does not support collations other than binary. This statement is only provided to ensure compatibility with MySQL.

## See also

* [SHOW CHARACTER SET](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-character-set.md)

Commit message:

sql-statement: improve consistency, fix small errors (#3585)
* sql-statment: improve consistency, fix small errors

* Update sequences, use compatibility notes

* Fix COMMIT statement

* Address PR feedback

* Be more careful with default language.

* Address PR feedback

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-begin.md

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>

* Update report bug link per reviewer

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update system-variables.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>
Co-authored-by: ti-srebot <66930949+ti-srebot@users.noreply.github.com>

sql-statements/sql-statement-show-collation.md, after:

---
title: SHOW COLLATION | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW COLLATION for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-collation/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/show-collation/']
---

# SHOW COLLATION

This statement provides a static list of collations, and is included to provide compatibility with MySQL client libraries.

> **Note:** TiDB currently only supports binary collations.

## Synopsis

**ShowStmt:**

![ShowStmt](/media/sqlgram/ShowStmt.png)

**ShowTargetFilterable:**

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

## Examples

```sql
mysql> SHOW COLLATION;
+--------------------------+----------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| Collation                | Charset  | Id   | Default | Compiled | Sortlen |
+--------------------------+----------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| big5_chinese_ci          | big5     |    1 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_czech_cs          | latin2   |    2 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| dec8_swedish_ci          | dec8     |    3 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp850_general_ci         | cp850    |    4 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_german1_ci        | latin1   |    5 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hp8_english_ci           | hp8      |    6 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8r_general_ci         | koi8r    |    7 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_swedish_ci        | latin1   |    8 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_general_ci        | latin2   |    9 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| swe7_swedish_ci          | swe7     |   10 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| ascii_general_ci         | ascii    |   11 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| ujis_japanese_ci         | ujis     |   12 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| sjis_japanese_ci         | sjis     |   13 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_bulgarian_ci      | cp1251   |   14 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_danish_ci         | latin1   |   15 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hebrew_general_ci        | hebrew   |   16 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| tis620_thai_ci           | tis620   |   18 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| euckr_korean_ci          | euckr    |   19 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_estonian_cs       | latin7   |   20 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_hungarian_ci      | latin2   |   21 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8u_general_ci         | koi8u    |   22 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_ukrainian_ci      | cp1251   |   23 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gb2312_chinese_ci        | gb2312   |   24 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| greek_general_ci         | greek    |   25 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_general_ci        | cp1250   |   26 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_croatian_ci       | latin2   |   27 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gbk_chinese_ci           | gbk      |   28 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1257_lithuanian_ci     | cp1257   |   29 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin5_turkish_ci        | latin5   |   30 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_german2_ci        | latin1   |   31 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| armscii8_general_ci      | armscii8 |   32 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_general_ci          | utf8     |   33 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_czech_cs          | cp1250   |   34 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_general_ci          | ucs2     |   35 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp866_general_ci         | cp866    |   36 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| keybcs2_general_ci       | keybcs2  |   37 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| macce_general_ci         | macce    |   38 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| macroman_general_ci      | macroman |   39 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp852_general_ci         | cp852    |   40 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_general_ci        | latin7   |   41 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_general_cs        | latin7   |   42 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| macce_bin                | macce    |   43 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_croatian_ci       | cp1250   |   44 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_general_ci       | utf8mb4  |   45 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_bin              | utf8mb4  |   46 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_bin               | latin1   |   47 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_general_ci        | latin1   |   48 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_general_cs        | latin1   |   49 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_bin               | cp1251   |   50 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_general_ci        | cp1251   |   51 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1251_general_cs        | cp1251   |   52 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| macroman_bin             | macroman |   53 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_general_ci         | utf16    |   54 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_bin                | utf16    |   55 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16le_general_ci       | utf16le  |   56 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1256_general_ci        | cp1256   |   57 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1257_bin               | cp1257   |   58 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1257_general_ci        | cp1257   |   59 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_general_ci         | utf32    |   60 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_bin                | utf32    |   61 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16le_bin              | utf16le  |   62 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| binary                   | binary   |   63 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| armscii8_bin             | armscii8 |   64 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ascii_bin                | ascii    |   65 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_bin               | cp1250   |   66 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1256_bin               | cp1256   |   67 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp866_bin                | cp866    |   68 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| dec8_bin                 | dec8     |   69 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| greek_bin                | greek    |   70 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hebrew_bin               | hebrew   |   71 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| hp8_bin                  | hp8      |   72 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| keybcs2_bin              | keybcs2  |   73 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8r_bin                | koi8r    |   74 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| koi8u_bin                | koi8u    |   75 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin2_bin               | latin2   |   77 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin5_bin               | latin5   |   78 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin7_bin               | latin7   |   79 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp850_bin                | cp850    |   80 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp852_bin                | cp852    |   81 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| swe7_bin                 | swe7     |   82 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_bin                 | utf8     |   83 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| big5_bin                 | big5     |   84 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| euckr_bin                | euckr    |   85 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gb2312_bin               | gb2312   |   86 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gbk_bin                  | gbk      |   87 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| sjis_bin                 | sjis     |   88 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| tis620_bin               | tis620   |   89 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_bin                 | ucs2     |   90 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ujis_bin                 | ujis     |   91 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| geostd8_general_ci       | geostd8  |   92 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| geostd8_bin              | geostd8  |   93 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| latin1_spanish_ci        | latin1   |   94 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp932_japanese_ci        | cp932    |   95 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| cp932_bin                | cp932    |   96 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| eucjpms_japanese_ci      | eucjpms  |   97 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
| eucjpms_bin              | eucjpms  |   98 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| cp1250_polish_ci         | cp1250   |   99 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_unicode_ci         | utf16    |  101 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_icelandic_ci       | utf16    |  102 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_latvian_ci         | utf16    |  103 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_romanian_ci        | utf16    |  104 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_slovenian_ci       | utf16    |  105 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_polish_ci          | utf16    |  106 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_estonian_ci        | utf16    |  107 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_spanish_ci         | utf16    |  108 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_swedish_ci         | utf16    |  109 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_turkish_ci         | utf16    |  110 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_czech_ci           | utf16    |  111 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_danish_ci          | utf16    |  112 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_lithuanian_ci      | utf16    |  113 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_slovak_ci          | utf16    |  114 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_spanish2_ci        | utf16    |  115 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_roman_ci           | utf16    |  116 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_persian_ci         | utf16    |  117 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_esperanto_ci       | utf16    |  118 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_hungarian_ci       | utf16    |  119 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_sinhala_ci         | utf16    |  120 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_german2_ci         | utf16    |  121 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_croatian_ci        | utf16    |  122 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_unicode_520_ci     | utf16    |  123 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf16_vietnamese_ci      | utf16    |  124 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_unicode_ci          | ucs2     |  128 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_icelandic_ci        | ucs2     |  129 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_latvian_ci          | ucs2     |  130 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_romanian_ci         | ucs2     |  131 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_slovenian_ci        | ucs2     |  132 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_polish_ci           | ucs2     |  133 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_estonian_ci         | ucs2     |  134 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_spanish_ci          | ucs2     |  135 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_swedish_ci          | ucs2     |  136 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_turkish_ci          | ucs2     |  137 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_czech_ci            | ucs2     |  138 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_danish_ci           | ucs2     |  139 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_lithuanian_ci       | ucs2     |  140 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_slovak_ci           | ucs2     |  141 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_spanish2_ci         | ucs2     |  142 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_roman_ci            | ucs2     |  143 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_persian_ci          | ucs2     |  144 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_esperanto_ci        | ucs2     |  145 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_hungarian_ci        | ucs2     |  146 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_sinhala_ci          | ucs2     |  147 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_german2_ci          | ucs2     |  148 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_croatian_ci         | ucs2     |  149 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_unicode_520_ci      | ucs2     |  150 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_vietnamese_ci       | ucs2     |  151 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| ucs2_general_mysql500_ci | ucs2     |  159 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_unicode_ci         | utf32    |  160 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_icelandic_ci       | utf32    |  161 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_latvian_ci         | utf32    |  162 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_romanian_ci        | utf32    |  163 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_slovenian_ci       | utf32    |  164 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_polish_ci          | utf32    |  165 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_estonian_ci        | utf32    |  166 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_spanish_ci         | utf32    |  167 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_swedish_ci         | utf32    |  168 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_turkish_ci         | utf32    |  169 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_czech_ci           | utf32    |  170 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_danish_ci          | utf32    |  171 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_lithuanian_ci      | utf32    |  172 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_slovak_ci          | utf32    |  173 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_spanish2_ci        | utf32    |  174 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_roman_ci           | utf32    |  175 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_persian_ci         | utf32    |  176 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_esperanto_ci       | utf32    |  177 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_hungarian_ci       | utf32    |  178 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_sinhala_ci         | utf32    |  179 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_german2_ci         | utf32    |  180 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_croatian_ci        | utf32    |  181 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_unicode_520_ci     | utf32    |  182 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf32_vietnamese_ci      | utf32    |  183 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_unicode_ci          | utf8     |  192 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_icelandic_ci        | utf8     |  193 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_latvian_ci          | utf8     |  194 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_romanian_ci         | utf8     |  195 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_slovenian_ci        | utf8     |  196 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_polish_ci           | utf8     |  197 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_estonian_ci         | utf8     |  198 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_spanish_ci          | utf8     |  199 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_swedish_ci          | utf8     |  200 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_turkish_ci          | utf8     |  201 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_czech_ci            | utf8     |  202 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_danish_ci           | utf8     |  203 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_lithuanian_ci       | utf8     |  204 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_slovak_ci           | utf8     |  205 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_spanish2_ci         | utf8     |  206 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_roman_ci            | utf8     |  207 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_persian_ci          | utf8     |  208 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_esperanto_ci        | utf8     |  209 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_hungarian_ci        | utf8     |  210 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_sinhala_ci          | utf8     |  211 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_german2_ci          | utf8     |  212 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_croatian_ci         | utf8     |  213 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_unicode_520_ci      | utf8     |  214 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_vietnamese_ci       | utf8     |  215 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8_general_mysql500_ci | utf8     |  223 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_unicode_ci       | utf8mb4  |  224 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_icelandic_ci     | utf8mb4  |  225 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_latvian_ci       | utf8mb4  |  226 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_romanian_ci      | utf8mb4  |  227 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_slovenian_ci     | utf8mb4  |  228 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_polish_ci        | utf8mb4  |  229 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_estonian_ci      | utf8mb4  |  230 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_spanish_ci       | utf8mb4  |  231 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_swedish_ci       | utf8mb4  |  232 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_turkish_ci       | utf8mb4  |  233 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_czech_ci         | utf8mb4  |  234 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_danish_ci        | utf8mb4  |  235 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_lithuanian_ci    | utf8mb4  |  236 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_slovak_ci        | utf8mb4  |  237 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_spanish2_ci      | utf8mb4  |  238 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_roman_ci         | utf8mb4  |  239 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_persian_ci       | utf8mb4  |  240 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_esperanto_ci     | utf8mb4  |  241 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_hungarian_ci     | utf8mb4  |  242 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_sinhala_ci       | utf8mb4  |  243 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_german2_ci       | utf8mb4  |  244 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_croatian_ci      | utf8mb4  |  245 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_unicode_520_ci   | utf8mb4  |  246 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| utf8mb4_vietnamese_ci    | utf8mb4  |  247 |         | Yes      |       1 |
+--------------------------+----------+------+---------+----------+---------+
219 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

The usage of this statement is understood to be fully compatible with MySQL. However, charsets in TiDB may have different default collations compared with MySQL. For details, refer to [Compatibility with MySQL](/mysql-compatibility.md). Any other compatibility differences should be [reported via an issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new/choose) on GitHub.

## See also

* [SHOW CHARACTER SET](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-character-set.md)
