sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md, before:

---
title: Split Region
summary: An overview of the usage of Split Region for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/split-region/']
---

# Split Region

For each new table created in TiDB, one Region is segmented by default to store the data of this table. This default behavior is controlled by `split-table` in the configuration file. When the data in this Region exceeds the default Region size limit, the Region starts to split into two.

In the above case, because there is only one Region at the beginning, all write requests occur on the TiKV where the Region is located. If there are a large number of writes for the newly created table, hotspots are caused.

To solve the hotspot problem in the above scenario, TiDB introduces the pre-split function, which can pre-split multiple Regions for a certain table according to the specified parameters and scatter them to each TiKV node.

## Usage of Split Region

There are two types of Split Region syntax:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE table_name [INDEX index_name] BETWEEN (lower_value) AND (upper_value) REGIONS region_num
```

`BETWEEN lower_value AND upper_value REGIONS region_num` defines the upper boundary, the lower boundary, and the Region amount. Then the current region will be evenly spilt into the number of regions (as specified in `region_num`) between the upper and lower boundaries.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE table_name [INDEX index_name] BY (value_list) [, (value_list)] ...
```

`BY value_list…` specifies a series of points manually, based on which the current Region is spilt. It is suitable for scenarios with unevenly distributed data.

### Split Table Region

The key of row data in each table is encoded by `table_id` and `row_id`. The format is as follows:

```go
t[table_id]_r[row_id]
```

For example, when `table_id` is 22 and `row_id` is 11:

```go
t22_r11
```

Row data in the same table have the same `table_id`, but each row has its unique `row_id` that can be used for Region split.

#### Even Split

Because `row_id` is an integer, the value of the key to be split can be calculated according to the specified `lower_value`, `upper_value`, and `region_num`. TiDB first calculates the step value (`step = (upper_value - lower_value)/num`). Then split will be done evenly per each "step" between `lower_value` and `upper_value` to generate the number of Regions as specified by `num`.

For example, if you want 16 evenly split Regions split from key range`minInt64`~`maxInt64` for table t, you can use this statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t BETWEEN (-9223372036854775808) AND (9223372036854775807) REGIONS 16;
```

This statement splits table t into 16 Regions between minInt64 and maxInt64. If the given primary key range is smaller than the specified one, for example, 0~1000000000, you can use 0 and 1000000000 take place of minInt64 and maxInt64 respectively to split Regions.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t BETWEEN (0) AND (1000000000) REGIONS 16;
```

#### Uneven split

If the known data is unevenly distributed, and you want a Region to be split respectively in key ranges -inf ~ 10000, 10000 ~ 90000, and 90000 ~ +inf, you can achieve this by setting fixed points, as shown below:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t BY (10000), (90000);
```

### Split index Region

The key of the index data in the table is encoded by `table_id`, `index_id`, and the value of the index column. The format is as follows:

```go
t[table_id]_i[index_id][index_value]
```

For example, when `table_id` is 22, `index_id` is 5, and `index_value` is abc:

```go
t22_i5abc
```

The `table_id` and `index_id` of the same index data in one table is the same. To split index Regions, you need to split Regions based on `index_value`.

#### Even Spilt

The way to split index evenly works the same as splitting data evenly. However, calculating the value of step is more complicated, because `index_value` might not be an integer.

The values of `upper` and `lower` are encoded into a byte array firstly. After removing the longest common prefix of `lower` and `upper` byte array, the first 8 bytes of `lower` and `upper` are converted into the uint64 format. Then `step = (upper - lower)/num` is calculated. After that, the calculated step is encoded into a byte array, which is appended to the longest common prefix of the `lower` and `upper` byte array for index split. Here is an example:

If the column of the `idx` index is of the integer type, you can use the following SQL statement to split index data:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx BETWEEN (-9223372036854775808) AND (9223372036854775807) REGIONS 16;
```

This statement splits the Region of index idx in table t into 16 Regions from `minInt64` to `maxInt64`.

If the column of index idx1 is of varchar type, and you want to split index data by prefix letters.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx1 BETWEEN ("a") AND ("z") REGIONS 25;
```

This statement splits index idx1 into 25 Regions from a~z. The range of Region 1 is `[minIndexValue, b)`; the range of Region 2 is `[b, c)`; … the range of Region 25 is `[y, minIndexValue]`. For the `idx` index, data with the `a` prefix is written into Region 1, and data with the `b` prefix is written into Region 2, and so on.

In the split method above, both data with the `y` and `z` prefixes are written into Region 25, because the upper bound is not `z`, but `{` (the character next to `z` in ASCII). Therefore, a more accurate split method is as follows:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx1 BETWEEN ("a") AND ("{") REGIONS 26;
```

This statement splits index idx1 of the table `t` into 26 Regions from a~`{`. The range of Region 1 is `[minIndexValue, b)`; the range of Region 2 is `[b, c)`; … the range of Region 25 is `[y, z)`, and the range of Region 26 is `[z, maxIndexValue)`. 

If the column of index idx2 is of time type like timestamp/datetime, and you want to split index Region by time interval:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx2 BETWEEN ("2010-01-01 00:00:00") AND ("2020-01-01 00:00:00") REGIONS 10;
```

This statemnt spilts the region of index idx2 in table t into 10 Regions from  `2010-01-01 00:00:00` to  `2020-01-01 00:00:00`. The range of Region 1 is `[minIndexValue,  2011-01-01 00:00:00)`; the range of Region 2 is `[2011-01-01 00:00:00, 2012-01-01 00:00:00)` and so on.

Region split methods for other types of index columns are similar.

For data Region split of joint indexes, the only difference is that you can specify multiple columns values.

For example, index `idx3 (a, b)` contains 2 columns, with column `a` of timestamp type and column `b` int. If you just want to do a time range split according to column `a`, you can use the SQL statement for splitting time index of a single column. In this case, do not specify the value of column `b` in `lower_value` and `upper_velue`.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx3 BETWEEN ("2010-01-01 00:00:00") AND ("2020-01-01 00:00:00") REGIONS 10;
```

Within the same range of time, if you want to do one more split according to column b column. Just specify the value for column b when splitting.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx3 BETWEEN ("2010-01-01 00:00:00", "a") AND ("2010-01-01 00:00:00", "z") REGIONS 10;
```

This statement splits 10 Regions in the range of a~z according to the value of column b, with the same time prefix as column a. If the value specified for column a is different, the value of column b might not be used in this case.

#### Uneven Split

Index data can also be split by specified index values.

For example, there is `idx4 (a,b)`, with column `a` of the varchar type and column `b` of the timestamp type.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t1 INDEX idx4 ("a", "2000-01-01 00:00:01"), ("b", "2019-04-17 14:26:19"), ("c", "");
```

This statement specifies 3 values to split 4 Regions. The range of each Region is as follows:

```
region1  [ minIndexValue               , ("a", "2000-01-01 00:00:01"))
region2  [("a", "2000-01-01 00:00:01") , ("b", "2019-04-17 14:26:19"))
region3  [("b", "2019-04-17 14:26:19") , ("c", "")                   )
region4  [("c", "")                    , maxIndexValue               )
```

## pre_split_regions

To have evenly split Regions when a table is created, it is recommended you use `shard_row_id_bits` together with `pre_split_regions`. When a table is created successfully, `pre_split_regions` pre-spilts tables into the number of Regions as specified by `2^(pre_split_regions)`.

> **Note:**
>
> The value of `pre_split_regions` must be less than or equal to that of `shard_row_id_bits`.

### Example

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
create table t (a int, b int,index idx1(a)) shard_row_id_bits = 4 pre_split_regions=2;
```

After building the table, this statement splits `4 + 1` Regions for table t. `4 (2^2)` Regions are used to save table row data, and 1 Region is for saving the index data of `idx1`.

The ranges of the 4 table Regions are as follows:

```
region1:   [ -inf      ,  1<<61 )
region2:   [ 1<<61     ,  2<<61 )
region3:   [ 2<<61     ,  3<<61 )
region4:   [ 3<<61     ,  +inf  )
```

## Related session variable

There are two `SPLIT REGION` related session variables: `tidb_scatter_region`, `tidb_wait_split_region_finish` and `tidb_wait_split_region_timeout`. For details, see [TiDB specific system variables and syntax](/tidb-specific-system-variables.md).

Commit message:

sql-statement: improve consistency, fix small errors (#3585)
* sql-statment: improve consistency, fix small errors

* Update sequences, use compatibility notes

* Fix COMMIT statement

* Address PR feedback

* Be more careful with default language.

* Address PR feedback

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-begin.md

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>

* Update report bug link per reviewer

* Update constraints.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-commit.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

* Update system-variables.md

Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>

Co-authored-by: Zhang Jian <zjsariel@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lilian Lee <lilin@pingcap.com>
Co-authored-by: ti-srebot <66930949+ti-srebot@users.noreply.github.com>

sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md, after:

---
title: Split Region
summary: An overview of the usage of Split Region for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/v3.1/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region/','/docs/v3.1/reference/sql/statements/split-region/']
---

# Split Region

For each new table created in TiDB, one Region is segmented by default to store the data of this table. This default behavior is controlled by `split-table` in the configuration file. When the data in this Region exceeds the default Region size limit, the Region starts to split into two.

In the above case, because there is only one Region at the beginning, all write requests occur on the TiKV where the Region is located. If there are a large number of writes for the newly created table, hotspots are caused.

To solve the hotspot problem in the above scenario, TiDB introduces the pre-split function, which can pre-split multiple Regions for a certain table according to the specified parameters and scatter them to each TiKV node.

## Usage of Split Region

There are two types of Split Region syntax:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE table_name [INDEX index_name] BETWEEN (lower_value) AND (upper_value) REGIONS region_num
```

`BETWEEN lower_value AND upper_value REGIONS region_num` defines the upper boundary, the lower boundary, and the Region amount. Then the current region will be evenly spilt into the number of regions (as specified in `region_num`) between the upper and lower boundaries.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE table_name [INDEX index_name] BY (value_list) [, (value_list)] ...
```

`BY value_list…` specifies a series of points manually, based on which the current Region is spilt. It is suitable for scenarios with unevenly distributed data.

### Split Table Region

The key of row data in each table is encoded by `table_id` and `row_id`. The format is as follows:

```go
t[table_id]_r[row_id]
```

For example, when `table_id` is 22 and `row_id` is 11:

```go
t22_r11
```

Row data in the same table have the same `table_id`, but each row has its unique `row_id` that can be used for Region split.

#### Even Split

Because `row_id` is an integer, the value of the key to be split can be calculated according to the specified `lower_value`, `upper_value`, and `region_num`. TiDB first calculates the step value (`step = (upper_value - lower_value)/num`). Then split will be done evenly per each "step" between `lower_value` and `upper_value` to generate the number of Regions as specified by `num`.

For example, if you want 16 evenly split Regions split from key range`minInt64`~`maxInt64` for table t, you can use this statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t BETWEEN (-9223372036854775808) AND (9223372036854775807) REGIONS 16;
```

This statement splits table t into 16 Regions between minInt64 and maxInt64. If the given primary key range is smaller than the specified one, for example, 0~1000000000, you can use 0 and 1000000000 take place of minInt64 and maxInt64 respectively to split Regions.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t BETWEEN (0) AND (1000000000) REGIONS 16;
```

#### Uneven split

If the known data is unevenly distributed, and you want a Region to be split respectively in key ranges -inf ~ 10000, 10000 ~ 90000, and 90000 ~ +inf, you can achieve this by setting fixed points, as shown below:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t BY (10000), (90000);
```

### Split index Region

The key of the index data in the table is encoded by `table_id`, `index_id`, and the value of the index column. The format is as follows:

```go
t[table_id]_i[index_id][index_value]
```

For example, when `table_id` is 22, `index_id` is 5, and `index_value` is abc:

```go
t22_i5abc
```

The `table_id` and `index_id` of the same index data in one table is the same. To split index Regions, you need to split Regions based on `index_value`.

#### Even Spilt

The way to split index evenly works the same as splitting data evenly. However, calculating the value of step is more complicated, because `index_value` might not be an integer.

The values of `upper` and `lower` are encoded into a byte array firstly. After removing the longest common prefix of `lower` and `upper` byte array, the first 8 bytes of `lower` and `upper` are converted into the uint64 format. Then `step = (upper - lower)/num` is calculated. After that, the calculated step is encoded into a byte array, which is appended to the longest common prefix of the `lower` and `upper` byte array for index split. Here is an example:

If the column of the `idx` index is of the integer type, you can use the following SQL statement to split index data:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx BETWEEN (-9223372036854775808) AND (9223372036854775807) REGIONS 16;
```

This statement splits the Region of index idx in table t into 16 Regions from `minInt64` to `maxInt64`.

If the column of index idx1 is of varchar type, and you want to split index data by prefix letters.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx1 BETWEEN ("a") AND ("z") REGIONS 25;
```

This statement splits index idx1 into 25 Regions from a~z. The range of Region 1 is `[minIndexValue, b)`; the range of Region 2 is `[b, c)`; … the range of Region 25 is `[y, minIndexValue]`. For the `idx` index, data with the `a` prefix is written into Region 1, and data with the `b` prefix is written into Region 2, and so on.

In the split method above, both data with the `y` and `z` prefixes are written into Region 25, because the upper bound is not `z`, but `{` (the character next to `z` in ASCII). Therefore, a more accurate split method is as follows:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx1 BETWEEN ("a") AND ("{") REGIONS 26;
```

This statement splits index idx1 of the table `t` into 26 Regions from a~`{`. The range of Region 1 is `[minIndexValue, b)`; the range of Region 2 is `[b, c)`; … the range of Region 25 is `[y, z)`, and the range of Region 26 is `[z, maxIndexValue)`. 

If the column of index idx2 is of time type like timestamp/datetime, and you want to split index Region by time interval:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx2 BETWEEN ("2010-01-01 00:00:00") AND ("2020-01-01 00:00:00") REGIONS 10;
```

This statemnt spilts the region of index idx2 in table t into 10 Regions from  `2010-01-01 00:00:00` to  `2020-01-01 00:00:00`. The range of Region 1 is `[minIndexValue,  2011-01-01 00:00:00)`; the range of Region 2 is `[2011-01-01 00:00:00, 2012-01-01 00:00:00)` and so on.

Region split methods for other types of index columns are similar.

For data Region split of joint indexes, the only difference is that you can specify multiple columns values.

For example, index `idx3 (a, b)` contains 2 columns, with column `a` of timestamp type and column `b` int. If you just want to do a time range split according to column `a`, you can use the SQL statement for splitting time index of a single column. In this case, do not specify the value of column `b` in `lower_value` and `upper_velue`.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx3 BETWEEN ("2010-01-01 00:00:00") AND ("2020-01-01 00:00:00") REGIONS 10;
```

Within the same range of time, if you want to do one more split according to column b column. Just specify the value for column b when splitting.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t INDEX idx3 BETWEEN ("2010-01-01 00:00:00", "a") AND ("2010-01-01 00:00:00", "z") REGIONS 10;
```

This statement splits 10 Regions in the range of a~z according to the value of column b, with the same time prefix as column a. If the value specified for column a is different, the value of column b might not be used in this case.

#### Uneven Split

Index data can also be split by specified index values.

For example, there is `idx4 (a,b)`, with column `a` of the varchar type and column `b` of the timestamp type.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SPLIT TABLE t1 INDEX idx4 ("a", "2000-01-01 00:00:01"), ("b", "2019-04-17 14:26:19"), ("c", "");
```

This statement specifies 3 values to split 4 Regions. The range of each Region is as follows:

```
region1  [ minIndexValue               , ("a", "2000-01-01 00:00:01"))
region2  [("a", "2000-01-01 00:00:01") , ("b", "2019-04-17 14:26:19"))
region3  [("b", "2019-04-17 14:26:19") , ("c", "")                   )
region4  [("c", "")                    , maxIndexValue               )
```

## pre_split_regions

To have evenly split Regions when a table is created, it is recommended you use `shard_row_id_bits` together with `pre_split_regions`. When a table is created successfully, `pre_split_regions` pre-spilts tables into the number of Regions as specified by `2^(pre_split_regions)`.

> **Note:**
>
> The value of `pre_split_regions` must be less than or equal to that of `shard_row_id_bits`.

### Example

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
create table t (a int, b int,index idx1(a)) shard_row_id_bits = 4 pre_split_regions=2;
```

After building the table, this statement splits `4 + 1` Regions for table t. `4 (2^2)` Regions are used to save table row data, and 1 Region is for saving the index data of `idx1`.

The ranges of the 4 table Regions are as follows:

```
region1:   [ -inf      ,  1<<61 )
region2:   [ 1<<61     ,  2<<61 )
region3:   [ 2<<61     ,  3<<61 )
region4:   [ 3<<61     ,  +inf  )
```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension to MySQL syntax.

## See also

There are two `SPLIT REGION` related session variables: `tidb_scatter_region`, `tidb_wait_split_region_finish` and `tidb_wait_split_region_timeout`. For details, see [TiDB specific system variables and syntax](/tidb-specific-system-variables.md).
