sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md, before:

---
title: CREATE SEQUENCE
summary: An overview of the usage of CREATE SEQUENCE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/create-sequence/']
---

# CREATE SEQUENCE

The `CREATE SEQUENCE` statement creates sequence objects in TiDB. The sequence is a database object that is on a par with the table and the `View` object. The sequence is used to generate serialized IDs in a customized way.

## Synopsis

**CreateSequenceStmt:**

![CreateSequenceStmt](/media/sqlgram/CreateSequenceStmt.png)

**IfNotExists:**

![IfNotExists](/media/sqlgram/IfNotExists.png)

**TableName:**

![TableName](/media/sqlgram/TableName.png)

**CreateSequenceOptionListOpt:**

![CreateSequenceOptionListOpt](/media/sqlgram/CreateSequenceOptionListOpt.png)

**SequenceOptionList:**

![SequenceOptionList](/media/sqlgram/SequenceOptionList.png)

**SequenceOption:**

![SequenceOption](/media/sqlgram/SequenceOption.png)

## Syntax

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE [TEMPORARY] SEQUENCE [IF NOT EXISTS] sequence_name
    [ INCREMENT [ BY | = ] increment ]
    [ MINVALUE [=] minvalue | NO MINVALUE | NOMINVALUE ]
    [ MAXVALUE [=] maxvalue | NO MAXVALUE | NOMAXVALUE ]
    [ START [ WITH | = ] start ]
    [ CACHE [=] cache | NOCACHE | NO CACHE]
    [ CYCLE | NOCYCLE | NO CYCLE]
    [ ORDER | NOORDER | NO ORDER]
    [table_options]
```

## Parameters

|Parameters | Default value | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :--|
| `TEMPORARY` | `false` | TiDB currently does not support the `TEMPORARY` option and provides only syntax compatibility for it. |
| `INCREMENT` | `1` | Specifies the increment of a sequence. Its positive or negative values can control the growth direction of the sequence. |
| `MINVALUE` | `1` or `-9223372036854775807` | Specifies the minimum value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `1`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `-9223372036854775807`. |
| `MAXVALUE` | `9223372036854775806` or `-1` | Specifies the maximum value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `9223372036854775806`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `-1`. |
| `START` | `MINVALUE` or `MAXVALUE`| Specifies the initial value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `MINVALUE`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `MAXVALUE`. |
| `CACHE` | `1000` | Specifies the local cache size of a sequence in TiDB. |
| `CYCLE` | `NO CYCLE` | Specifies whether a sequence restarts from the minimum value (or maximum for the descending sequence). When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `MINVALUE`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `MAXVALUE`. |
| `ORDER` | `NO ORDER` | TiDB currently does not support the `ORDER` option and provides only syntax compatibility for it. |

## `SEQUENCE` function

You can control a sequence through the following expression functions:

+ `NEXTVAL` or `NEXT VALUE FOR`

    Essentially, both are the `nextval()` function that gets the next valid value of a sequence object. The parameter of the `nextval()` function is the `identifier` of the sequence.

+ `LASTVAL`

    This function gets the last used value of this session. If the value does not exist, `NULL` is used. The parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence.

+ `SETVAL`

    This function sets the progression of the current value for a sequence. The first parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence; the second parameter is `num`.

> **Note:**
>
> In the implementation of a sequence in TiDB, the `SETVAL` function cannot change the initial progression or cycle progression of this sequence. This function only returns the next valid value based on this progression.

## Examples

+ Create a sequence object with the default parameter:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CREATE SEQUENCE seq;
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.06 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `nextval()` function to get the next value of the sequence object:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT nextval(seq);
    ```

    ```
    +--------------+
    | nextval(seq) |
    +--------------+
    |            1 |
    +--------------+
    1 row in set (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `lastval()` function to get the value generated by the last call to a sequence object in this session:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT lastval(seq);
    ```

    ```
    +--------------+
    | lastval(seq) |
    +--------------+
    |            1 |
    +--------------+
    1 row in set (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `setval()` function to set the current value (or the current position) of the sequence object:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT setval(seq, 10);
    ```

    ```
    +-----------------+
    | setval(seq, 10) |
    +-----------------+
    |              10 |
    +-----------------+
    1 row in set (0.01 sec)
    ```

+ You can also use the `next value for` syntax to get the next value of the sequence:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT next value for seq;
    ```

    ```
    +--------------------+
    | next value for seq |
    +--------------------+
    |                 11 |
    +--------------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ Create a sequence object with default custom parameters:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CREATE SEQUENCE seq2 start 3 increment 2 minvalue 1 maxvalue 10 cache 3;
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)
    ```

+ When the sequence object has not been used in this session, the `lastval()` function returns a `NULL` value.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT lastval(seq2);
    ```

    ```
    +---------------+
    | lastval(seq2) |
    +---------------+
    |          NULL |
    +---------------+
    1 row in set (0.01 sec)
    ```

+ The first valid value of the `nextval()` function for the sequence object is the value of `START` parameter.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT nextval(seq2);
    ```

    ```
    +---------------+
    | nextval(seq2) |
    +---------------+
    |             3 |
    +---------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ Although the `setval()` function can change the current value of the sequence object, it cannot change the arithmetic progression rule for the next value.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT setval(seq2, 6);
    ```

    ```
    +-----------------+
    | setval(seq2, 6) |
    +-----------------+
    |               6 |
    +-----------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ When you use `nextval()` to get the next value, the next value will follow the arithmetic progression rule defined by the sequence.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT next value for seq2;
    ```

    ```
    +---------------------+
    | next value for seq2 |
    +---------------------+
    |                   7 |
    +---------------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ You can use the next value of the sequence as the default value for the column, as in the following example.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CRATE table t(a int default next value for seq2);
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ In the following example, the value is not specified, so the default value of `seq2` is used.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    INSERT into t values();
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)
    ```

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT * from t;
    ```

    ```
    +------+
    | a    |
    +------+
    |    9 |
    +------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ In the following example, the value is not specified, so the default value of `seq2` is used. But the next value of `seq2` is not within the range defined in the above example (`CREATE SEQUENCE seq2 start 3 increment 2 minvalue 1 maxvalue 10 cache 3;`), so an error is returned.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    INSERT into t values();
    ```

    ```
    ERROR 4135 (HY000): Sequence 'test.seq2' has run out
    ```

## MySQL compatibility

Currently, MySQL does not have the sequence option. The TiDB sequence is borrowed from MariaDB. Except for the `SETVAL` function, all other functions have the same progressions with those functions of MariaDB.

Here "progression" means that the numbers in a sequence follow a certain arithmetic progression rule defined by the sequence. Although you can use `SETVAL` to set the current value of a sequence, the subsequent values of the sequence still follow the original progression rule.

For example:

```
1, 3, 5, ...            // The sequence starts from 1 and increments by 2.
select setval(seq, 6)   // Sets the current value of a sequence to 6.
7, 9, 11, ...           // Subsequent values still follow the progression rule.
```

In the `CYCLE` mode, the initial value of a sequence in the first round is the value of the `START` parameter, and the initial value in the subsequent rounds is the value of `MinValue` (`INCREMENT` > 0) or `MaxValue` (`INCREMENT` < 0).

## See also

* [DROP SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-sequence.md)
* [SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-sequence.md)

Commit message:

Update sequences, use compatibility notes

sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence.md, after:

---
title: CREATE SEQUENCE
summary: An overview of the usage of CREATE SEQUENCE for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-sequence/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/create-sequence/']
---

# CREATE SEQUENCE

The `CREATE SEQUENCE` statement creates sequence objects in TiDB. The sequence is a database object that is on a par with the table and the `View` object. The sequence is used to generate serialized IDs in a customized way.

## Synopsis

**CreateSequenceStmt:**

![CreateSequenceStmt](/media/sqlgram/CreateSequenceStmt.png)

**IfNotExists:**

![IfNotExists](/media/sqlgram/IfNotExists.png)

**TableName:**

![TableName](/media/sqlgram/TableName.png)

**CreateSequenceOptionListOpt:**

![CreateSequenceOptionListOpt](/media/sqlgram/CreateSequenceOptionListOpt.png)

**SequenceOptionList:**

![SequenceOptionList](/media/sqlgram/SequenceOptionList.png)

**SequenceOption:**

![SequenceOption](/media/sqlgram/SequenceOption.png)

## Syntax

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE [TEMPORARY] SEQUENCE [IF NOT EXISTS] sequence_name
    [ INCREMENT [ BY | = ] increment ]
    [ MINVALUE [=] minvalue | NO MINVALUE | NOMINVALUE ]
    [ MAXVALUE [=] maxvalue | NO MAXVALUE | NOMAXVALUE ]
    [ START [ WITH | = ] start ]
    [ CACHE [=] cache | NOCACHE | NO CACHE]
    [ CYCLE | NOCYCLE | NO CYCLE]
    [ ORDER | NOORDER | NO ORDER]
    [table_options]
```

## Parameters

|Parameters | Default value | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :--|
| `TEMPORARY` | `false` | TiDB currently does not support the `TEMPORARY` option and provides only syntax compatibility for it. |
| `INCREMENT` | `1` | Specifies the increment of a sequence. Its positive or negative values can control the growth direction of the sequence. |
| `MINVALUE` | `1` or `-9223372036854775807` | Specifies the minimum value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `1`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `-9223372036854775807`. |
| `MAXVALUE` | `9223372036854775806` or `-1` | Specifies the maximum value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `9223372036854775806`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `-1`. |
| `START` | `MINVALUE` or `MAXVALUE`| Specifies the initial value of a sequence. When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `MINVALUE`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `MAXVALUE`. |
| `CACHE` | `1000` | Specifies the local cache size of a sequence in TiDB. |
| `CYCLE` | `NO CYCLE` | Specifies whether a sequence restarts from the minimum value (or maximum for the descending sequence). When `INCREMENT` > `0`, the default value is `MINVALUE`. When `INCREMENT` < `0`, the default value is `MAXVALUE`. |
| `ORDER` | `NO ORDER` | TiDB currently does not support the `ORDER` option and provides only syntax compatibility for it. |

## `SEQUENCE` function

You can control a sequence through the following expression functions:

+ `NEXTVAL` or `NEXT VALUE FOR`

    Essentially, both are the `nextval()` function that gets the next valid value of a sequence object. The parameter of the `nextval()` function is the `identifier` of the sequence.

+ `LASTVAL`

    This function gets the last used value of this session. If the value does not exist, `NULL` is used. The parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence.

+ `SETVAL`

    This function sets the progression of the current value for a sequence. The first parameter of this function is the `identifier` of the sequence; the second parameter is `num`.

> **Note:**
>
> In the implementation of a sequence in TiDB, the `SETVAL` function cannot change the initial progression or cycle progression of this sequence. This function only returns the next valid value based on this progression.

## Examples

+ Create a sequence object with the default parameter:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CREATE SEQUENCE seq;
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.06 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `nextval()` function to get the next value of the sequence object:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT nextval(seq);
    ```

    ```
    +--------------+
    | nextval(seq) |
    +--------------+
    |            1 |
    +--------------+
    1 row in set (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `lastval()` function to get the value generated by the last call to a sequence object in this session:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT lastval(seq);
    ```

    ```
    +--------------+
    | lastval(seq) |
    +--------------+
    |            1 |
    +--------------+
    1 row in set (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ Use the `setval()` function to set the current value (or the current position) of the sequence object:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT setval(seq, 10);
    ```

    ```
    +-----------------+
    | setval(seq, 10) |
    +-----------------+
    |              10 |
    +-----------------+
    1 row in set (0.01 sec)
    ```

+ You can also use the `next value for` syntax to get the next value of the sequence:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT next value for seq;
    ```

    ```
    +--------------------+
    | next value for seq |
    +--------------------+
    |                 11 |
    +--------------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ Create a sequence object with default custom parameters:

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CREATE SEQUENCE seq2 start 3 increment 2 minvalue 1 maxvalue 10 cache 3;
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)
    ```

+ When the sequence object has not been used in this session, the `lastval()` function returns a `NULL` value.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT lastval(seq2);
    ```

    ```
    +---------------+
    | lastval(seq2) |
    +---------------+
    |          NULL |
    +---------------+
    1 row in set (0.01 sec)
    ```

+ The first valid value of the `nextval()` function for the sequence object is the value of `START` parameter.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT nextval(seq2);
    ```

    ```
    +---------------+
    | nextval(seq2) |
    +---------------+
    |             3 |
    +---------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ Although the `setval()` function can change the current value of the sequence object, it cannot change the arithmetic progression rule for the next value.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT setval(seq2, 6);
    ```

    ```
    +-----------------+
    | setval(seq2, 6) |
    +-----------------+
    |               6 |
    +-----------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ When you use `nextval()` to get the next value, the next value will follow the arithmetic progression rule defined by the sequence.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT next value for seq2;
    ```

    ```
    +---------------------+
    | next value for seq2 |
    +---------------------+
    |                   7 |
    +---------------------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ You can use the next value of the sequence as the default value for the column, as in the following example.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    CRATE table t(a int default next value for seq2);
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.02 sec)
    ```

+ In the following example, the value is not specified, so the default value of `seq2` is used.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    INSERT into t values();
    ```

    ```
    Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)
    ```

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    SELECT * from t;
    ```

    ```
    +------+
    | a    |
    +------+
    |    9 |
    +------+
    1 row in set (0.00 sec)
    ```

+ In the following example, the value is not specified, so the default value of `seq2` is used. But the next value of `seq2` is not within the range defined in the above example (`CREATE SEQUENCE seq2 start 3 increment 2 minvalue 1 maxvalue 10 cache 3;`), so an error is returned.

    {{< copyable "sql" >}}

    ```sql
    INSERT into t values();
    ```

    ```
    ERROR 4135 (HY000): Sequence 'test.seq2' has run out
    ```

## MySQL compatibility

This statement is a TiDB extension. The implementation is modeled on sequences available in MariaDB.

Except for the `SETVAL` function, all other functions have the same _progressions_ as MariaDB. Here "progression" means that the numbers in a sequence follow a certain arithmetic progression rule defined by the sequence. Although you can use `SETVAL` to set the current value of a sequence, the subsequent values of the sequence still follow the original progression rule.

For example:

```
1, 3, 5, ...            // The sequence starts from 1 and increments by 2.
select setval(seq, 6)   // Sets the current value of a sequence to 6.
7, 9, 11, ...           // Subsequent values still follow the progression rule.
```

In the `CYCLE` mode, the initial value of a sequence in the first round is the value of the `START` parameter, and the initial value in the subsequent rounds is the value of `MinValue` (`INCREMENT` > 0) or `MaxValue` (`INCREMENT` < 0).

## See also

* [DROP SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-sequence.md)
* [SHOW CREATE SEQUENCE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-create-sequence.md)
