tiflash/troubleshoot-tiflash.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshoot a TiFlash Cluster
summary: Learn common operations when you troubleshoot a TiFlash cluster.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/tiflash/troubleshoot-tiflash/']
---

# Troubleshoot a TiFlash Cluster

This section describes some commonly encountered issues when using TiFlash, the reasons, and the solutions.

## TiFlash fails to start

The issue might occur due to different reasons. It is recommended that you troubleshoot it following the steps below:

1. Check whether your system is CentOS8.

     CentOS8 does not have the `libnsl.so` system library. You can manually install it via the following command:

     {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

     ```shell
     dnf install libnsl
     ```

2. Check your system's `ulimit` parameter setting.

     {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

     ```shell
     ulimit -n 1000000
     ```

3. Use the PD Control tool to check whether there is any TiFlash instance that failed to go offline on the node (same IP and Port) and force the instance(s) to go offline. For detailed steps, refer to [Scale in a TiFlash node](/scale-tidb-using-tiup.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-node).

If the above methods cannot resolve your issue, save the TiFlash log files and email to [info@pingcap.com](mailto:info@pingcap.com) for more information.

## TiFlash replica is always unavailable

This is because TiFlash is in an abnormal state caused by configuration errors or environment issues. Take the following steps to identify the faulty component:

1. Check whether PD enables the `Placement Rules` feature:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo 'config show replication' | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    The expected result is `"enable-placement-rules": "true"`. If not enabled, [enable the Placement Rules feature](/configure-placement-rules.md#enable-placement-rules).

2. Check whether the TiFlash process is working correctly by viewing `UpTime` on the TiFlash-Summary monitoring panel.

3. Check whether the TiFlash proxy status is normal through `pd-ctl`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo "store" | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    The TiFlash proxy's `store.labels` includes information such as `{"key": "engine", "value": "tiflash"}`. You can check this information to confirm a TiFlash proxy.

4. Check whether `pd buddy` can correctly print the logs (the log path is the value of `log` in the [flash.flash_cluster] configuration item; the default log path is under the `tmp` directory configured in the TiFlash configuration file).

5. Check whether the value of `max-replicas` in PD is less than or equal to the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster. If not, PD cannot replicate data to TiFlash:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo 'config show replication' | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    Reconfirm the value of `max-replicas`.

6. Check whether the remaining disk space of the machine (where `store` of the TiFlash node is) is sufficient. By default, when the remaining disk space is less than 20% of the `store` capacity (which is controlled by the `low-space-ratio` parameter), PD cannot schedule data to this TiFlash node.

## TiFlash query time is unstable, and the error log prints many `Lock Exception` messages

This is because large amounts of data are written to the cluster, which causes that the TiFlash query encounters a lock and requires query retry.

You can set the query timestamp to one second earlier in TiDB. For example, if the current time is '2020-04-08 20:15:01', you can execute `set @@tidb_snapshot='2020-04-08 20:15:00';` before you execute the query. This makes less TiFlash queries encounter a lock and mitigates the risk of unstable query time.

## Some queries return the `Region Unavailable` error

If the load pressure on TiFlash is too heavy and it causes that TiFlash data replication falls behind, some queries might return the `Region Unavailable` error.

In this case, you can balance the load pressure by adding more TiFlash nodes.

## Data file corruption

Take the following steps to handle the data file corruption:

1. Refer to [Take a TiFlash node down](/scale-tidb-using-tiup.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-node) to take the corresponding TiFlash node down.
2. Delete the related data of the TiFlash node.
3. Redeploy the TiFlash node in the cluster.

Commit message:

Update related description in troubleshoot-tiflash

tiflash/troubleshoot-tiflash.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshoot a TiFlash Cluster
summary: Learn common operations when you troubleshoot a TiFlash cluster.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/tiflash/troubleshoot-tiflash/']
---

# Troubleshoot a TiFlash Cluster

This section describes some commonly encountered issues when using TiFlash, the reasons, and the solutions.

## TiFlash fails to start

The issue might occur due to different reasons. It is recommended that you troubleshoot it following the steps below:

1. Check whether your system is CentOS8.

     CentOS8 does not have the `libnsl.so` system library. You can manually install it via the following command:

     {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

     ```shell
     dnf install libnsl
     ```

2. Check your system's `ulimit` parameter setting.

     {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

     ```shell
     ulimit -n 1000000
     ```

3. Use the PD Control tool to check whether there is any TiFlash instance that failed to go offline on the node (same IP and Port) and force the instance(s) to go offline. For detailed steps, refer to [Scale in a TiFlash node](/scale-tidb-using-tiup.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-node).

If the above methods cannot resolve your issue, save the TiFlash log files and email to [info@pingcap.com](mailto:info@pingcap.com) for more information.

## TiFlash replica is always unavailable

This is because TiFlash is in an abnormal state caused by configuration errors or environment issues. Take the following steps to identify the faulty component:

1. Check whether PD enables the `Placement Rules` feature:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo 'config show replication' | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    The expected result is `"enable-placement-rules": "true"`. If not enabled, [enable the Placement Rules feature](/configure-placement-rules.md#enable-placement-rules).

2. Check whether the TiFlash process is working correctly by viewing `UpTime` on the TiFlash-Summary monitoring panel.

3. Check whether the TiFlash proxy status is normal through `pd-ctl`.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo "store" | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    The TiFlash proxy's `store.labels` includes information such as `{"key": "engine", "value": "tiflash"}`. You can check this information to confirm a TiFlash proxy.

4. Check whether `pd buddy` can correctly print the logs (the log path is the value of `log` in the [flash.flash_cluster] configuration item; the default log path is under the `tmp` directory configured in the TiFlash configuration file).

5. Check whether the number of configured replicas is less than or equal to the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster. If not, PD cannot replicate data to TiFlash:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    echo 'config placement-rules show' | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>
    ```

    Reconfirm the value of `default: count`.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > After [placement rules](/configure-placement-rules.md) are enabled, the previously configured `max-replicas` and `location-labels` no longer take effect. To adjust the replica policy, use the interface related to placement rules.

6. Check whether the remaining disk space of the machine (where `store` of the TiFlash node is) is sufficient. By default, when the remaining disk space is less than 20% of the `store` capacity (which is controlled by the `low-space-ratio` parameter), PD cannot schedule data to this TiFlash node.

## TiFlash query time is unstable, and the error log prints many `Lock Exception` messages

This is because large amounts of data are written to the cluster, which causes that the TiFlash query encounters a lock and requires query retry.

You can set the query timestamp to one second earlier in TiDB. For example, if the current time is '2020-04-08 20:15:01', you can execute `set @@tidb_snapshot='2020-04-08 20:15:00';` before you execute the query. This makes less TiFlash queries encounter a lock and mitigates the risk of unstable query time.

## Some queries return the `Region Unavailable` error

If the load pressure on TiFlash is too heavy and it causes that TiFlash data replication falls behind, some queries might return the `Region Unavailable` error.

In this case, you can balance the load pressure by adding more TiFlash nodes.

## Data file corruption

Take the following steps to handle the data file corruption:

1. Refer to [Take a TiFlash node down](/scale-tidb-using-tiup.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-node) to take the corresponding TiFlash node down.
2. Delete the related data of the TiFlash node.
3. Redeploy the TiFlash node in the cluster.
